---
layout: 'layout:post'
---

## Japan
Japan withdrew from the International Whaling Commission (IWC) and resumed commercial whaling. They capture 1 whale and then kill 12 times as many whales and dolphins. The reason for killing so many whales despite the fact that whale meat has no demand and the 12 dead cannot perform tricks like the one captured.

The whales are killed because they are seen as competition. They kill the other fishes around. Japan think that killing these whales will solve their overfishing problem. Mitsubishi Japan controls 40% of the world Blue Fin tuna market, a fish that goes $3M a piece, one of the few believed to be eaten by dolphins.

Similarly for shark fins, 90% of the sharks have been wiped out. Shark fin food is purely luxury, it doesn't taste like anything and doesn't have any nutritional benefit. We kill about 40-50% sharks globally just as a result of them being bycatch for other fish. Most of these sharks die before they are thrown back into water.

>We should not be worried about there being sharks in the ocean. We should be worried about there not being sharks in the ocean.

## The Front Face of 'Protection'

All labels on fishing cans, 'Dolphin Safe' for example. Have no meaning. They are not enforced.

50% of all sea trash is fishing gear. And guess what, they are designed to kill. So we know how that story ends. Plastic straws is a front made by these companies. It is &lt;0.03% of the ocean pastic. When you donate to a plastic reduction organisation, that money goes to Earth Island Institue (as an example), because. Why wouldn't it.

The deepwater oil spill killed less fish in months than the local fisheries kill in a day. The oil spill caused fishing to stop in the region. So as a result the fish populations actually benefited.

## The Impacts

When fish excrete. That is food for the corals. Since there are no fish. We are losing coral reefs. The coral reefs are not being lost because of just climate change. But because of fishing. We will as a species, wipe out 90% of the corals before 2050. By the same year we will have no more fishing industry, because we will have finished all fish to catch.

We will 5M fishes a day. Or about 3T a year. Fishes in the ocean move up and down and churn the ocean, this churing of the ocean helps it in holding more CO<sub>2</sub> and heat. You know where this is going :\), the ocean is the BIGGEST. THE BIGGEST. THE BLOODY FUCKING BIGGEST. Carbon control system we have. Not for long.

93% of the world's CO<sub>2</sub> is held in marine plants. 1% of these go & we release 97M cars worth of CO<sub>2</sub>.

Less fish drives people to kill on land. This was directly responsible for causing the ebola outbreaks. We have scientific literature for this.

## Fish farming

Fish farming is even worse. The fish are raised in small pools which have more or less motionless water and the fishes go around in circles in their own waste and sheds. Multiply this but thousands of fishes per pool. Fish farming creates fishes which are very unwell and often aren't killed to eat but just die of their illness.

A lot of mangroves are also wiped out just to farm for shrimps. Mangroves are natural tsunami defences. These farming practices often are fuelled by slave labour. This is specially prominent in Thailand.

Fish feel more pain than any an average human. The statement that they don't feel pain is absolute bullshit. Fish have a line running down their body which is sensitive to just the tinyest of the changes in the water below them.

### The flip side
Not eating fish has no flip side. We don't miss out on any more than one bioaccumulated toxic wastes which were once disposed from factories.