---
layout: 'layout:post'
---


Good quality leads are NOT the New Batman (batwoman), cmdr Holdo, Grace Skywalker, the New Female Doctor, the New Mulan, Captain Marvel, Charlie's Angels, Harley Quinn. When we think of good female leads we think of Black Widow, Rita Vertaski (edge of tomorrow), Zoe (firefly), Eowyn (LoTR) taking down witch king of Agmar and maybe most of all Wonder Woman walking into no man's land.

# Woke Movies
## Introduction
Most of the modern movies have tried to add wokeness into them by forcing in female leads even when it was not needed. This is very clearly reflected in the poor box office ratings of these movies. *Don't make the bullshit excuse that men don't watch it. Because first consumer market is dominated by women (>60%), second. The world is HALF women.* So it has nothing to do with prejudice, most of these movies are just plain shit.

The above mentioned good leads are all great because their strengths and weaknesses are very well known to them, their gender is not ever used as an excuse or complaint. They have all their abilities predefined but yet understated. Most of all they have persevered.

The end goal of all the good leads is not their own glory or some expedient end point like destroying the patriarchy. But instead the ultimate triumph of good over evil, they all fight for something bigger than themselves. These women all don't just hate men intrinsically, they form bonds and fight alongside shoulder to shoulder as equals. Their own power is not diminished by any means.

## Taking over existing franchises
These franchises have all run a simple rule algorithm, <code>find male; replace male with female; inject a fuck load of identity politics </code>. The introduction of these heroes has recently not been with the objective of empowerment or taking the story to new interesting directions. It has been about **ITS ABOUT TIME** *Too bloody destroy the series*.

This 'its about time' narrative completely destroys why people watch Doctor Who every week. For the story and the characters not its own self aggrandisation. Jodie Whitaker is a great actor and the current role she has been put in just undermines her ability to carry out complex narratives by just putting it in place to make a point as opposed to her in say Broadchurch.

## Entitlement to Success
These movies are all releasing thinking that they are entitled to their success, which they are not. Note even the male movies are. Each movie for its own. The first movie ever also had this problem, Godfather II had to stand its own ground and took the plot well therefore making a brilliantly well received movie. Godfather III on the other hand destroyed its own franchise and was taken poorly. None of these movies were entitled to their success. These are not Salman khan movies, they don't make 400cr for just a face.

While the directors and actors may think they are entitled to their success they will usually not get it, almost universally entitlement is met with scorn and mockery and so shall these movies. The last 3 star wars were a piece of crap and they have no reason to assume they will do well simply because they are star wars.

## Weak & Condescending Characters
Most of these movies are putting young inexperienced girls at the center of the movies. Consider batwoman who asked for the batsuit to be fit to her and it will be perfect only when it fits a woman. The hubris of just taking something which was built by Wayne step by step by trying and testing what works and does not and just taking it away doing nothing whatsoever to earn it except being born with XX chromosomes. Sorry excuse me WHAT THE FUCK?. Batwoman a few scenes later says "I'm not letting a man take credit for a woman's work". HELLO SIR CAN WE DISCUSS WHAT HAPPENED 5 MINUTES AGO? What you did with a certain batman's suit...?

Consider the new Dr Who where Stephen Fry from MI6 assumes the doctor is a male (a fair assumption since it is so since literally decades. There have been 12 before). This was a chance for the franchise to be graceful and earn the audience respect by say making no comment on it and letting fry realise his mistake. But instead they had to say "I've had an upgrade". Why do you have to make everyone before you kneel for you to stand up Jodie, you're better than this.

Male lead characters don't do well because of male leads but because they are well made. Solo was followed after some 10 star wars media releases. To say it was disastrous would be an understatement. Its not a matter of hating just because its a change, justify the change otherwise even a new male lead followed by Sarah Connor will be despised in the Terminator series.

## No Criticism Exists
Any movies made now with Woke female leads makes a primary mistake. They don't allow criticism. They say any criticism comes from a deep desire to keep women down and extreme jealously. Ya excuse me what? The movie wonder woman had virtually no plot <- PERFECTLY VALID CRITICISM. But it had one of the best ever ~~female~~ leads known to fanatics.

## Saviour Complex
Woke movies just assume that they are saving societal construct as a whole and without them women would be weeping in a corner while walking one step behind a man. Woke movies assume that without them there would be no female role models. As if without them Sarah Conner (Terminator), Ellen Ripley (Alien), Clarice Starling (Silence o/t Lambs) would not exist as they have been for decades.

These classic female leads like Celie (The Color Purple) have all had shortcomings and hurdles which they have overcome against insurmountable odds and represented their ability to do anything. Whereas the new woke leads all are either just born perfect (new mulan) or are rude and annoying AF (holdo) and tend to stay that way. Do you know what happens to such rude characters?

<code>
Steve: WHat are you? <br/>
Tony: Genius, billionaire, playboy, Philanthrophist <br/>
Steve: I know guys with none of that worth 10 of you <br/>
... <br/>
A few movies later Tony does slowly redeem himself
</code>

<fr-embeder from="youtube" src="dEk-M-dcwXo"></fr-embeder>

Being rude is not taken poorly just with females but also males. After avengers upto infinity war Steve Rogers vs Iron Man as a role model would have been no competition for Steve. In Endgame (or maybe even Iron Man 3) after his redemption people have started at least to consider this a fair fight. Iron man went from a self serving genius to a man who found deep meaning in life and paid the ultimate price to preserve it.

## Struggle
Mulan is no longer relatable of just being a scared adolescent girl who has to earn her place in the army and protect her family's legacy. Mulan is now an expert with god given chi since before she was even born and the only thing holding her back is society who thinks women should not fight. Captain Marvel is the strongest avenger and what is holder her back? Jude Law her mentor's approval? oh no no no you innocent child, she does that with just one blast. NOTHING IS.

What is holding Rey back? Nothing. She's doing epic back flips and not stumbling even once. Kylo Ren who trained for many many years was defeated by her just because the force randomly magically started flowing through her with no effort whatsoever. Is it too much too ask that the characters be relatable? or that they have setbacks and overcome them like say a certain Wonder Woman. Or like say holdo just being pure rude when Oscar Isaac asks her for a plan. He is trying to be useful, but she just has to insult him because he is male. You go gurll, slayyyy.

In the first wonder woman. Diana is literally a god killer. Like by birth. But does she take it for granted, be rude, condescending and also just gain abilities magically? No. She has to work for it and fall, cry and bleed for it. That is what makes her wonder woman. Not the prophesy. In the second movie they undo all that where wonder woman easily beat some women 3x her age and lost because of a minor detail. IF SHE WAS MAGIC ALL ALONG WHY THE FUCK WASTE TIME IN THE FIRST MOVIE SHOWING STRUGGLE...

The leads wokes are creating convey that these leads have nothing to learn and are just born perfect, in which case why are you human dude? We don't need you in movies we need you in temples. Please leave the movies to relatable characters like Elastigirl from Incredibles. If you are for equality then act like a human. If you're not for equality and want to create god like characters then that is also fine, just don't use woman empowerment as an excuse.

Be the best version of yourselves not the worst version we accuse men of being. Arrogant, Bigoted and Entitled.
