---
layout: 'layout:post'
---

The early days of twitter were like a way of radical de-shaming. Twitter today is a compilation of either people's best lives or their absolute worst, and we use their ability to handle an adversarial situation to judge their moral worth. Precisely like a prison.

## The Design of the online jury
A person mis-tweets something and they are taken out of context and step by step ripped apart on the internet. Opinions, Assumptions and Coincidences are now Facts. They are now Ground Truth. Now as long as the person in question is being roasted and insulted, EVERYONE gets a free pass to say anything. Justine Sacco was threatened with the most top level heinous crimes possible, all of which now in the court of twitter are legal. No one care about context or meaning. So long as the person in question is the target, everything is on the table. Their life will be ripped apart step by step, second by second and any mistake they have ever done will be found out and taken to jury.

'Misuse of privilege', 'being offensive' are now terms which have been rapidly devalued to an extent that they were effectively meaningless and subject to the interpretations of whosoever wished to apply them. Terms which were once applied to things which were borderline illegal are now being applied to events which are barely inconvenient. People take the liberty of interpreting someones words and intentions in any way that benefits them the most and might help stroking their ego. Dear People, It takes psychologists years to figure out how to read people's intentions and they still need a lot of information per event to decisively conclude. WHO THE FUCK ARE YOU EVEN???

## Dynamics
### Abuse of power
This online mob has is a double abuse of power, not in a sense the twitter people apply, but in actuality. In the following ways:

**Mob Truth**: Since once a mob has been whipped up against a certain person. That person is now irrelevant, whatever the mob says goes and is legal and correct. The person on the other end will not get any way to defend themselves or explain what happened or even make a correction. The mob is now a supreme entity which decides what happens.

**Anonymity**: Most people on twitter are anonymous and invisible. They use this anonymity as a weapon to wield and are able to get out of responsibility thus giving them a free pass to say the worst of the worst. This provision of privacy is an abuse of power with no consequences to the invisible man.

### Ego Satiation
Best Put by Mike Davies on what it is to be on the end of a public shaming
> It feels like they want an apology but that's a lie they don't want an apology what they want is my destruction They want me to die they will never say this because it's too histrionic, but they want to never hear from me again and while they're never hearing for me again they want the right to use me as a cultural reference point whenever it services their ends that's how it work out best for them. I've never had the opportunity of being an object of hate before the hard part isn't the hate it's the object

Followed by the following from Jon Ronson
> Of course what that means is that kind of stubby white men like Mike Daisy and me (Jon Ronson) are learning for the first time what it feels like to be objectified which I guess is progressive sorts but but maybe it's not so it is there no good way to

This mob of getting people to apologize is a form of self gratification of 'Yes I did something right and got credit for it'. Or 'Yes we got someone to bend'. Its the same reason to why call out culture exists, things can be done privately while being civil, but no one gets credit for that.

A larger problem of the twitter garden is people make a joke out of the scenario while thinking of themselves as the beacon of justice. Imagine if that was an actual court room. All of those people would go to jail for Contempt of Court.

When Jonah is on the floor and we are still kicking at him we congratulate ourselves for punching up.

## Reasons
Why is this so? Because twitter and youtube are feedback loops. They promote only what sells i.e creates more buzz. Good news is never news. And this is the big daddy of that. This amplifies everything that is scandalous and good news is never scandalous. So you can imagine what will happen. Twitter brings out the worst in people. Everytime something minor or ignorable goes wrong it is blown out of proportion and context.

Twitter is also limited to small number of characters. So the people who blossom the most are those who do well with small outrageous pithy messages. Not those who favour more context and nuance, who to say the least are *fucked*.


## Consequences
Everytime you think people are fine when you rip them apart online. They aren't.


## Solutions
People shouldn't be more careful on the internet. The mob needs to take a step back. While it is possible to construe this as unfair by taking it to the extreme, that is usually not the case. People tend to be civil. Asking people to be careful about what they say is like saying girls should not wear short skirts on a saturday night. Its classic victim blaming.

You can't regulate against delightful people who want to be seen as being compassionate to the down trodden.