---
layout: 'layout:post'
---

Winning an argument is not the same as finding the truth. Winning an argument is a matter of art and mathematics. While it SHOULD always be the case that it is to find the truth, because of human nature itself, for most people it happens to be proving themselves right as opposed to running through the logic.

I will not include methods like using temper and speed etc since I think that they are less about the game of argument and more about absolute deception and may change from person to person. The following are only for arguments which you consistently believe in.

## Meta Arguments
Often when a statement is made, DISPROVING it is taken to be not about the statement itself but rather its proof. Say a statement was made by A and a proof was issued. In an argument for B to disprove A he need not disprove the statement but it will be sufficient to show a logical inconsistency in the proof of A. The grey area here is that a disprove of proof is not the same as disprove of statement since there may exist other proofs for the given statement.

## Behaviour
As often discussed by Machiavelli in _The Prince_, when mercy is shown to a weak neighbors is it not necessary that they will do the same later. So on a given sub point if the opponent happens to be in the right, as often happens in sub arguments then it is important to not concede and either change the topic or find inconsistency in their arguments. Admittance of truth on our part will not guarantee a return in favour at a later point, therefore to prevent the loss of a step it is important to not concede.

Find inconsistencies in their arguments, it is possible that the people often say multiple things at once or over time some of which will not agree with each other, it is very useful to invoke this inconsistency and use it to discredit both the points and then also therefore disprove the parent points.

## Strategies
A very popular method of twisting words is to take their arguments and generalise them as far as possible and take your arguments and make them as specific as possible. General argument can be refuted basis even messages that were not intended, whereas specific arguments are extremely difficult to refute unless the exact counter is provided.

Use Homonyms and refute the homonym meanings. Note synonyms are different, homonyms represent the same word with different meanings

### Illusory Deception
Before giving away your main argument always make the opponent agree to premises. Or if not those then premises of premises so as to build up an inevitable end. If not done so then if mentioned before hand the opponent may try fancy business to prevent this.

### Use their game
Convincing an opponent can be done not only your true arguments but also your false arguments which to him are true i.e you don't convince them basis what you believe in but what they believe in. For example to attribute something in a transfer of blame to the supernatural, you don't have to believe in god; only they have to.

### Illusory Choice
Often you can also offer your opponent two choices one of which you want to affirm. Say A or B (where B will be not A), but the trick here will be to not tell them before hand which one you needed affirmed. Psychological trickery can be applied here to force an answer in your favour like say making the favourable one sound more logical and probabilistic whereas the counter not so and more miraculous in nature.

### Non Statistic
People suck at mathematics and probability. So often to throw out their arguments which hold in ALMOST all cases, all that is needed is one popular case. The largest chunk of people will actually not realise that this will not in any way change the probability.

### Stress Point
There will be multiple moments where you state a question or a premise and your opponent either ignore it or answer something else. Should this be the case it can be almost assumed that we have hit a weak point, this is either a hole in their belief or a counter point in their argument list, you must investigate this thoroughly.

## Levels of Denouncing
Winning an argument is not just about being right, it also means your opponent has to be wrong. This can done at multiple levels by breaking down their argument from the smallest to the largest chunk

**Example**: At the very smallest level, an example is often used to demonstration conformity with the premise. A counter example at this stage will act as a sledgehammer to a pillar.

**Premise**: The most obvious one is to refute and disprove the exact premise, or the current sub argument as a matter of the whole. This is like breaking the pillar of a building.

**Ideologies**: If it remotely resembles something else it is sufficient to attribute it to merely a school of thought under the assumption that it is well understood that it is proved to be false. Like say "Oh but that is just Communism" or Theism or A-ism or B-ism or C-ism etc etc. This is like an absolute wrecking ball.

**Credibility**: A person's credibility can be furthur attacked to say that they don't know what they are talking about. This is like painting the whole building black. In cases where true its a massive psychological advantage.

*Commentary*: This is most generally the case anyway, people get into arguments over things they read on whatsapp or saw in a youtube video without actually reading the book or research itself. While a reasonable approximation for the moot point. It is by no means a subsitute.

**Character**: While not recommended is the final step, this usually AFTER winning is to attack the character of a person. More than the current situation it is an insurance for the future. Asserting to a person something along the lines that they are in favour of true evil or the "bad side" in general is a strong persuasion for them to abandon their current direction.