---
layout: 'layout:post'
---

In Bonn he earned the respect of the Court and became the most important asset in Bonn’s music repertoire. He spent more and more time at the Breuning house, escaping his father, where he taught the girls piano and he was introduced to German and classic literature. He also met influential supporters, among them most notably Count Ferdinand von Waldstein – a life long friend.

## Early Years
In 1792, Beethoven came (back again) to Vienna post death of Mozart. However, Mozart left a legacy in the form of a great composer named Joseph Haydn. After Mozart's death, Beethoven finally studied piano with Haydn in Vienna. While it is prevalent that Beethoven had met Mozart it is merely a rumour.

Before he became known as a composer, he developed a reputation as a skilled improv pianist

During his lifetime, Beethoven composed \
9 symphonies \
5 piano concerts \
1 violin concert \
32 piano sonatas \
16 string quartets \
The opera Fidelio.

## Themes
Beethoven, who was known to be shy during his life, never married. He was repeatedly rejected by his ideal woman.Because it made an impression on him, the experience of that feeling was poured into the composition of the music Beethoven. In its history, Beethoven once loved a married woman named Antonie Brentano, he opened one of his letter to her with

"For You, My Immortal Beloved"

This letter however was never sent.

Before that, Beethoven was also noted to have loved a girl named Julie Guicciardi (and even the Brunsvik sisters) who came from the Brunsvik family. However, Beethoven was unable to marry her due to class differences. Later, Beethoven dedicated his feelings to the work Sonata No. 14 of hers. **Sonata 14: Moonlight**.

Several years later, Beethoven also had a crush on a girl named Therese Malfatti. Failing to propose to her the outpouring of Beethoven's heart was then embodied in one of his most famous compositions entitled **Fur Elise**.

## Playing with Napoleon
Wandering through the countryside, he began toying with a theme in E flat major. Before long, he had the outlines of a completely new symphony – his third – clear in his mind. While Beethoven was labouring over the score, he decided to name the symphony after Napoleon Bonaparte, then First Consul of France. Beethoven’s enthusiasm for Bonaparte was unflinching. As soon as the score was finished, in early 1804, he wrote the Italian words ‘Sinfonia intitolata Bonaparte’ (‘Symphony entitled Bonaparte’) on the cover and left the manuscript on a table so that all his friends could see.

But Beethoven was in for a nasty surprise. Not long after putting the final touches to his symphony, Ries came to him with news that, on 18 May 1804, Napoleon had declared himself Emperor of France. Beethoven was furious. Snatching up a pen, Beethoven then strode over to the score and scribbled out the title so violently that he tore through the paper. Thenceforth, the work would be known simply as the Sinfonia Eroica (the ‘Heroic’ Symphony).

## Composing in Silence
A common question is how Beethoven continued composing without his hearing, but this likely wasn’t too difficult. Music is a language, with rules. Knowing the rules of how music is made, he could sit at his desk and compose a piece of music without hearing it.

Beethoven’s style changed, however, as he retreated from public life. His once-vivacious piano sonatas began to take on a darker tone. His famous Sixth Symphony also reflects his different life in deafness. Also known as the Pastoral Symphony, the musical work conveys the peace of the countryside, where Beethoven escaped city life after losing his hearing. In terms of his deafness, this was a very important symphony, reflecting the importance as an individual to keep his sanity by being in the country.


## The last years
Just as the legal battles over Karl began to settle Beethoven entered his third and final phase of his creative life. As productivity compared to his previous periods had declined, a new even more refined creative energy emerged through his hands. The two main influences on this new direction is his increasing and slowly complete deafness; and the rediscovery of the works of J.S.Bach and Handel.

From 1818 he began to work on important works such as the Hammerklavier Sonata (op. 106), the Missa Solemnis (op. 123) and Diabelli Variations (op. 120). A long time desire to put Friedrich Schiller’s poem the Ode to joy into music, also started to shape in the form of the epic Ninth symphony. A former student Ferdinand Ries, who settled in London and became a founder member of the Philharmonic Society of London, raised interest in the works of Beethoven. Although the Ninth was premiered in Vienna (1824) and the printed edition was dedicated to Frederick William III, king of Prussia, the London Society has a hand written first movement dedicated to them by Beethoven. The public opinion considers the Ninth to be commissioned by London.

In 1824 the Ninth was premiered in Vienna in the Kärntnertor Theatre. Beethoven himself supervised the preparations and was sitting next to the conductor during the performance. Being unaware of the applause at the end it was the soloist who made him turn and face the audience. He was hailed five times in the age, when the Emperor usually received three. This was his last work for large scale orchestra.


## Final Days
His final commission came from the Russian prince Nikolas Golitsyn, who asked for three string quartets. These became the Late Quartets, music that was so difficult, labeled unplayable by the musicians and incomprehensible for the audience.

The funeral was held on 29 of March and an estimated 20 000 people attended. First he was buried in Wahring cemetery, but in 1888 his remains were moved to Vienna’s Zentralfriedhof, where he remains even today.