---
layout: 'layout:post'
---

# Immature Writers: Star Trek
Modern movies keep getting more and more shite because they are written and directed by children for children. Or more like people with the emotional maturity and the attention span of children.

Consider Star Trek Wrath of Khan (WoK), the undisputed champion of the best Star Trek ever with every metric besides CGI. The main plot is around a 50 year old Kirk who is given back command of the Enterprise to stop Khan who wants chaos everywhere and revenge on Kirk for leaving him stranded on a deserted planet many years ago. The movie starts with a Kirk on his 50th birthday slowly coming to terms with his age, eventually he is even gifted a pair of reading glasses by a member of the crew signifying that his eyesight isn't what is used to be. A VERY VERY RELATABLE BRILLIANT PREMISE, people feel like they are not getting the maximum of their potential and are bored and looking for adventure and that younger and younger people are coming in to replace them everyday.

The new Star Trek Into Darkness portrays him as a 36 year old in the prime of his life literally saving the universe and doing his best work ever. But since they need to project him as a reluctant hero they rip off the 50 year old Kirk's struggles and project it onto a 36 year old one. TF!?.

In the end of WoK as Spock is dying the old Kirk doesn't start screaming or react uncontrollably but instead just slowly sinks to the grown as he slowly simultaneously copes with the death of a man in action and also the loss of a friend at an old age. Even while delivering the Eulogy as expected of a man leading a starship and a crew he delivers it with stoic composure wavering once slightly at the end. He is expectly to lead by example and does so immaculately.

In the new star trek. IT IS A SHITSHOW of characters running around, screaming all the time and discussing relationships in front of superiour officers while responding to high stress situations with emotional outbursts. Even in the end the audience has little time to process what happened as they are forced to come to terms with destruction of a city, a starship, the death of khan and Kirk all within a span of less than 10 minutes. Whatever the fuck just happened? not to mention how in another 5 mins half of this shit will be instantly undone via some magical Trius Ex Machina.

### Interpersonal Conflict
At a brief moment during the collapse of the Klingon empire the federation is arguing of what to do. Spock is on one side where he wants to negociate a peace treaty & bring them into the federation and Kirk is on one side who wants to once and for all eliminate the archenemy who for years and years has terrorised the federation. No one side is shown as right or wrong, just two different perspectives are offered. They both argue their case rationally and slowly at a distance from each other across the table. Even briefly as Kirk's bigoted old nature comes to face with his anger he quickly manages to control it and face with reason the situation. Kirk is also demonstrating a difficulting in coming to terms with the scenario given his old mindset which is now slowly aging and becoming outdated. Despite this neither of the two people talk over each other or scream and disparage the other but instead while leaving unresolved, deal with it peacefully.

How did the new Star Trek deal with this? Spock and Kirk beat each other up.

### Authority
In TNG when Warf openly questions a decision taken by Data when they were left in charge in abscence of the Captain & his First Officer (FO). Data calmly calls Warf into a seperate room where they reason it out quitely in a 2 by 2 exchange. Data asked why he was questioned, Warf denfends that its his job to offer alternatives, data finally explains that after a decision is taken irrespective of his personal feelings the order is to be carried out. In the end Warf recognizes his error and asks data to calmly overlook the incident so that they can continue to be friends. HOLY SHIT THAT WAS IMPECCABLE DIALOGUE.

In Star Trek Discovery in stark contrast. The heirarchy and discipline between the people is worse than a liberal arts college. People say anything to anyone, cuss openly, scream shout and denigerate random people. No one from the Admiral to a Science officer has any sense of heirarchy or conflic resolution skill. They are able to do all this and rhetorics and sarcasm with no repurcussions whatsoever. They are all in Immature, Emotional, Generally Incompetent, Impulsive, Hyperactive, Emotionally Unstable and Unprofessional. These teenagers should not be given a small house so much the whole universe to save under their 'responsibility'.

## Hypothesis
This is all most likely happening for money. Movies are expensive to make now and if your film doesn't rake in a zillion dollars then you might as well.start learning to code. You need to appeal to as wide an audience as possible particularly the younger demographic, which means lots of action, lots of energy, lots of jokes with dialogue and fast-paced storylines that don't demand too much brain power: no time to waste people, go-go-go.

The second reason is this weird trend towards infantilizing modern audiences, carefully shielding them from anything that could be considered difficult scary or threatening: whether it's public information, videos, commercials or government announcements; everything's presented in this weird childish happy-clappy format that looks like the sort of inoffensive crap you'd show to kindergarteners.

The final and most influencial reason is writing. Any character is only as smart, capable and resourceful as their writer is. It is no surprise then that today's writers who consider mean tweets to be equivalent to mass murder aren't beacons of tough, stoic, self reliant characters. TNG was written by WW survivors, Late Star Trek post Wok was written by Cold War generation. The new high paced crap is written by Facebook and Snapchat kids. No wonder its shite.