---
layout: 'layout:post'
---

*Cover Tesla Cybertruck*

## Energy Storage
We have only 2 ways of storing. Water Pumped to height and Batteries like in Australia (Hornsdale). All else is JIT.

Sony was forced to build LiIon batteries. They are not a battery company. They were replacing NiH batteries.

There are many alternatives but none in production yet. Al-Air, Ca-Sb<sub>x</sub> (Ca-Antimony) Alloy battery, Zn-Au etc.

LiIon batteries are low density and also creates a solid electrolyte interface region. Tesla NCA goes from 100 to 80% capacity in just 500 cycles. (They are moving to LFP batteries LFPs from to 95% after 3000 cycles at 15&deg;C). Ca-Sbx batteries are 1/3rd total operating cost. But LiIon is tough it came from 3000 to 150$ / kWh. To beat TechnoLock in they need to find a niche.


## Energy Density
Kerosene is 43 MJ/kg. LiIon is 1. Consider an extreme example. A sesna needs 500kg batteries or about 2/3 its weight. For A320 it is 260KKg which is 5 times the weight of the empty plane.

Hydrogen is getting better with PEMs instead of water. Where H<sup>+</sup> is used to carry charge and not OH-. Low electricity density is why tesla did not declare empty truck weight. To combat part of this the cars are designed with very low drag. The trucks drag is less than bugatti divos.

Anode holders are usually Graphite. WHose single lattice unit can hold 4 Li. Contrast to silicon whose single lattice unit while being half the size holds 6 atoms. But this also causes 400% volume &uarr; so tesla is using small quantities.

## Safety
The car is autonomous and can detect crashes from 2 cars ahead. LIDAR SUCKS (expensive & bulky). Tesla has their own board onboard to calculate everything realtime. It can play Cyberpunk. They can process 2300 FPS, your computer can do 30.

It has 8 visible freq cameras, 12 ultrasonic sensors, 1 Radar. Lidar btw is being developed actively by spacex due to its crew dragon docking module nav system. Lidar used to cost 75K but now its 7.5K due to research by google. A car needs 4 one for each side. That is a total of 30K. That's the price of a full Model 3. Radar + Camera can do a full 5/5 on every side. Except proximity where its 4/5 where they use ultrasound when needed.

US average for crashes is 2.1/milMiles. Tesla Autopilot is 0.3/milMiles


## Transfer Efficiency
Tesla makes more batteries than the world makes electricity. .1TWh vs .006TWh.

While you can make bigger batteries with bigger bulk capacities, Like 2>1+1 the problem is they don't charge fast enough. So the sweet spot is currently 4680 (From 1865) So they get a 5x Energy, 6x Power & 15% range &uarr; for multiple batteries of the same weight.


## Maintainace
Batteries need a thermal management system and glycol tubing. Which no car before had. Nissan made 2 electrics, didn't add one even in the 2019 one

## Extra
Ultracapacitors

Vehicle structure base is the batteries

Dry coated batteries. Fraunhaufers process. 10x footprint & 10x energy &darr;

Bulk charge tests 85% investment & 75% footprint &darr;

## Production
Primarily they use Ni-CoAnode (NCA). LiMn is LMO & LiPO4 is LPA. Cobalt problem is poor supply and child labour. They are also trying Ni-Mn-Co & Ni-Co-Al. Nickel on the other hand is much more evenly spread and has a solid supply chain. Nickel although is also used in Steel so demand is high. Elon is demanding better production since the indonesian is dumping wastes into the ocean.

Tables batteries. Overall path length for electron is less so P/mg new>>P/mg old

GigaFactories lol. Tesla was the first company to do superscale production in a 100 years