---
layout: 'layout:post'
---

## Rules
- J Dampers have been banned
- There are budget caps
- wheels 13" -> 16" & tyre sidewalls are allowed

## Sponsorships
### Haas
Recently a shady company by the name of Rich Energy became the title sponsor for Haas F1. It turned out that when someone looked up the finances of the company they had only $770. So they invented a twitter drama of quitting Haas due to poor performance and left, it turned out that they also got sued for copying the Whyte Bikes antlers logo for 30K.

### Arrows
In the '99 season Arrows was in a very poor financial state so Prince Adu Ibrahim of Nigeria decided to promise them $125M cash, for which they got back half the livery painted black being shared with Repsol who had the front yellow (a very unique look indeed). When in the end Prince was asked for the money it turned out that his company Tminus was fraudulent and he disappeared, the company which took on the cost of this later then sued Arrows therefore shutting them down.

### Ferrari & McLaren
Mission Winnow is a shell company created by PMI (owners of Marlboro). MW website itself has very vague statements. In 2006 Tobacco companies were banned by FIA as sponsorships so as a part of their CSR PMI got created and created MW. Ferrari although in 2019 was forced to remove the MW logo because Aus has very strict laws on Tobacco advertising. The had to remove the it for 11/21 races.

McLaren also had advertising from A Better Tommorrow which is owned by British American Tobacco, they too were forced to remove a lot of the logos.


## Nationality
F1 till now has had 33 world champions from all seasons all coming from 40 different countries. 65% of F1's drivers however come from just 4 countries: US, UK, France & Italy.

100 F1 drivers have so far been Italian but only 2 of which have been world champions, the last one of which was Ascari in '53. While '78 winner Andretti was born in Italy, he had dual citizenship with US and since spent most of his career there chose to have his FIA Superlic representing USA.

158 F1 drivers have been from US officially, but since 1950-60 had Indianapolis Motor Speedway championship as an official F1 championship, 122 of those drivers never raced in any other F1 ever again. So there were technically only 36 American F1 drivers.

An acknowledgement should also be made for great brazilian drivers, Emerson Fit. & his mentee Ayrton Senna. Both legendary drivers which could have a separate post of their own.

### British F1
So far UK has produced 164 F1 drivers and 10/33 champions are british. Mclaren has participated in every season so far since '66, a streak which is second only to ferrari. Britain has won 2x as many constructor championships as the next 2nd Italy. The britishness of F1 can be clearly seen by also the fact that almost every team racing today has a base in UK: Renault, Haas, Merc etc.

Brits have taken the title a total of 20 times 7 of which are Hamilton. WHAT THE ACTUAL HELL.

### German F1
While F1 drivers are dominated by british the cars are clearly German. Merc joined in 1954 & won 2 in a row, followed by a slump till 2014 which they have won every year since. Hamilton has won so far every time driving a German engine and now consecutively a german car, the original that too.

### Finnish F1
Very inconspicuous indeed. Finnish drivers have the highest success rate. 3/9 Finnish drivers have been world champions. Kimi says it is because Finland has a very icy and slippery weather so to do base level driving also you need to be very good at it.

## Merc & the V6 Turbo Hybrid Era
### Aero
Since the merc car is longer than all other cars they have the distinct advantage of having a shallower front wing rake angle. So all other cars are at 25&deg; whereas merc is at 21&deg; This also gives them more area in the back of the car to cool the car and also manipulate airflow more efficiently.

So far redbull cars have been the best at aero with being able to make extremely tight corners but, merc claims that what they lose at corners with wheelbase they make up with aero benefits.

### Engines
1.6L V6 Turbo Hybrids. Part of the answer in is in the name 'Petronas'. Petronas provides merc with not just the fuel but also the fluids and lubricants. The average car is around 25% efficient, whereas Merc F1 is 50%. Engine efficiency is a big part since the max allowed fuel volume is 110kg with no refuelling and also max rate is 100kg/h which anyway won't last for the whole race.

Merc was also able to separate their turbine and their turbo so that one side of the car is hot side and one is the cool therefore also increasing their individual efficiencies. They also added spacers between the wheels internals to keep the tyres and brakes cool.

### DAS Auto
By far the most controversial of all Dual Axis Steering where pulling the steering in and out changes the toe of the tyres. This can be useful in the turns in making more effective turns and also makes heating the wheels up easier on safety car times and such.

## Ferrari 2021 return
Ferrari was obviously able to beat the fuel flow rate meter by knowing how it pulses and also creating a small deliberate leak to a separate tank when they can later invoke on straights to have blistering accelerations. When this was removed from the cars the new car engines with the old body work could not keep up with the old drag requirements and were sub par upto a second slower.

Ferrari created new engines with slightly smaller pumps at the MGU H end to make them easier to spin up and also moved the air intakes further out and slanted them more, this gave them more cooler and denser air therefore improving cooling. These also along with a few more changes add up and make the car at least tolerable on the track.

### Token System
With the new 2 token system in place, the single token parts are clutch, DRS, pitstop equipment etc. Or 2 tokens for shock/suspensions system, onboard electricals or drivers bucket etc.

Ferrari chose to change the gearbox. This was genius, because gearbox changes allow them to change the bodywork around it also including the rear suspension attachment points

## Tyres
Tyres are
- 26% Fillers
- 24% Synthetic Polymers
- 19% Rubber
- 14% Anti(Oxy&Ozone)anats
- 12% Steel
- 4% Textile

Tread also includes carbon black and silica to increase the life. By fine tuning these exact components it is possible to manipulate: Maximum grip temperature, wear rate and softness. In case of F1 the natural rubber is less than 10% and much more synthetics are added.

F1 tyres are developed by 150 engineers in Milan at Pirelli and tested to 280mph track, 170 mph impact, 300F temperature and load test to about 1200kg. 20% of all tyres are destroyed in the testing process to make sure tyres are upto spec. When there is a blowout pirelli employees pick up every single piece of tyre on the track so that other manufacturers cannot get hold of the formula.

### Degregation
**Tread Wear**: A standard tyre has a 30mm tread, a slick F1 tyre has 2-3mm tread, that combined with the fact that there is much higher grip and therefore much more abraision destroys the tyres much faster. F1 tyres unlike others don't loose grip when they degrade therefore drivers don't know how much wear has been done, causing lewis hamilton to cross the finish line with one flat tyre.

**Giving Up**: Soft F1 tyres ideal temperature range is 200-240F, Hard compound is 230-285F. When a tyre heats up beyond it starts slipping, causing more friction and therefore heat and and so on in a loop. This rapid heating and cooling frequently can cause a tyre to lose its chemical composition to form blisters and eventually even give up. Giving up is point where the tyre has had enough plastic deformation to the point where it cannot soften to give any more grip.

### Regulations
So why are degration rates so high? BECAUSE FIA WANTS THE SPORT TO BE EXCITING. The FIA requirements are public, with Hard defined as the baseline, mediums are to be 1.2s quicker and softs are to be 2.2s quicker. The soft must also slow down by 2 seconds on 10% race completion.

The current regulation is at the sweet spot where both 1 and 2 pit stops can have a race winning strategy and therefore make the sport exciting. Example: Medium-Pit-Hard or Soft-Pit-Medium-Pit-Soft. Pirelli makes C1-C5 5 compounds for the season and based on the particular track gives ALL teams the same set of 3 best suited compounds.

### Pushback
Drivers are claiming that the current demands for precision and degradation are too difficult to maintain and also that they are very dangerous from a safety angle. For instance despite choosing the hardest 3 C1-C3 at silverstone there were more than 5 blowouts also despite the fact that 90% cars switched to C1 within a few laps.