---
layout: 'layout:post'
---

Gliders also known as sail-planes are a kind of aircraft that differ from the rest by their ability to fly great distances without the need of an engine or propulsion of any kind even gaining altitude during their flight.

## Basic Mechanism
They don't need an engine to fly and because of the long impressive wingspan they have but their long wings have a reason to be.

We know that an airplane can fly or glide without an engine but in the process it will gradually lose altitude and depending on its weight/aero and other physical factors it. Gliders are designed to take full advantage of these balance of forces gliders are made with lightweight materials and the weight is distributed at the strategic points in an efficient manner to improve air penetration and the configuration of their wings allow them to have more live with less aerodynamic drag as a result their glide ratio is one of the most efficient among all airplanes the glide ratio is the distance that the aircraft can travel in respect to the lost altitude for example a Cessna-172 has a glide ratio of 9:1 which means that if it's engine stops it can fly from 100m of height for about 900m before crashing.

Gliders can do 40,50 or even 70:1 i.e starting from a 1km height we can keep flying for 70km. So thus a plane can keep moving but will keep losing altitude as it moves as long as it is not propelled in a static atmosphere.

## Manoeuvring
Luckily our atmosphere is not static at all to gain altitude gliders can take advantage of various atmospheric phenomena there are three main phenomena
- Ridge Lift
- Thermals
- Wave Lift

Thermals are by far the most common way to gain height. These are columns of hot air that are generated by the surface heated by the sun this air becomes less dense than the surrounding air and begins to rise rapidly the glider when entering a thermal can begin to fly in a circular pattern to stay inside it following the vortex and gaining altitude into the thermal disappears or weakens.

The other way to gain altitude is with a ridge lift these are ascending currents of air on slopes of the mountains is simply air that is forced to climb a mountain and a glider can take advantage of this current to gain altitude. The closer to the slope the stronger the climbing rate.

The last kind of lift is the wave lift it's about using the waves generated after the air passes through the mountain these waves extends for several kilometres and our invisible waves similar to the waves on the sea using these strategies to gain altitude a glider can stay in flight for many hours this is totally free.

## Takeoff & Design
- To make a glider takeoff you will need a nerve link that will tow it to an acceptable altitude where the glider can start by itself.
- Another way to take off is with a tail wind from the ground but the altitude gains in this method is not as much as the first method hopefully in a sunny day the glider can take thermals and fly longer
- Other ways to take off in a glider is from the mountains with a system of elastic ropes on a hillside
- Or by having a retractable propulsion system integrated into the glider that is only used to take off or gain altitude when needed.

Another factor that helps for better aerodynamics is the design of the fuselage making everything a smooth thing an aerodynamic as possible which is why the pilot enters the cockpit in much the same way as a formula one driver in his car almost lying down

The wings are also measured by aspect ratio, glider wings have a high aspect ratio and war airplanes/aerobatic aircraft wings have a low aspect ratio. War wings generate more induced drag so they're more maneuverable when that is a priority in warplanes rather than fuel efficiency in the case of a glider.

Gliders are built to be very light but strong at the same time they are even so light that you have to put more weight on the wings to improve their penetration. This is done by filling the glider with water ballast (at times weight more than pilot) in special tanks inside the wings. The water can be drained during the flight in case the thermals are now so strong and MUST necessarily be also drained before every landing. In the beginning lighters were made out of wood with fabrics or metal but now the use of composite materials like fiberglass carbon fiber and kevlar has been introduced for achieving a very huge structural resistance.

### Instruments
Gliders have very basic instruments like altimeter barometer etc. But all Gliders use a small rope on their windshield to see wind direction. While primitive its very effective and allows the pilot to stay in wind direction to optimise performance by minimising drag.