---
layout: 'layout:post'
---

BAC 0.04 - Motor Skills Struggle
BAC 0.08 - Brain Shuts down. (Hippocampus on a holiday)

### Brock Turner incident as a case study in alcoholism and behavior.
A brief recap: Turner, drunk, meets the anonymously-named Emily Doe, also drunk (and also, since the publication of Gladwell’s book, no longer anonymous). They dance, they walk, they stumble, he sexually assaults the unconscious undergrad, then later blames the alcohol.

During the hearings, in fact, alcohol seemed to be the culprit of everything that went wrong, from Chanel Miller’s blackout (it was the culprit) to Turner’s masculine aggression (it wasn’t). Alcohol is often invoked as the true villain in such circumstances, the insidious agent causing mayhem inside the mind of the attacker. Remove alcohol from the situation and a saint appears — or so the argument goes.

Is that really the case? It’s true that alcohol changes you — literally. Your conception of “self” is transformed. After saying hello to your frontal lobes, the brain region that governs, among other things, motivation and attention, alcohol moseys over to the amygdala, the switchboard operator of your fight-flight-freeze mechanism. Turning it down a notch, you become disinhibited; the very conception of “I” must be reconsidered.


## Alcoholic Myopia
Eventually, inevitably, alcohol — too much of it, anyway — seeps into your cerebellum. Balance and coordination are coopted. Finally, if you keep drinking, alcohol makes a final visit to your hippocampus, the brain region responsible for memories. Once you hit .08, your hippocampi (they’re a pair) struggle to keep up. A bit more and your brain will never imprint the experience. “You,” no longer in any sense the you you recognize, are no longer checked in. It basically means that the whole brain keeps working, but the memory maker shuts off.

0.08 BAC for an average person of 60 kgs means a little less than 3 beers or 2 shots of 40 proof alcohol.

This in practice means that you can book flights, have fights, run to places and do almost all normal tasks, without ever registering them. Once the alcohol wears off, you will remember nothing. Nothing.

“Lots of people drink when they are feeling down because they think it will chase their troubles away. That’s inhibition-thinking: alcohol will unlock my good mood. But that’s plainly not what happens. Sometimes alcohol cheers us up. But at other times, when an anxious person drinks they just get more anxious. Myopia theory has an answer to that puzzle: it depends on what the anxious, drunk person is doing. If he’s at a football game surrounded by rabid fans, the excitement and drama going on around him will temporarily crowd out his pressing worldly concerns. The game is front and center. His worries are not. But if the same man is in a quiet corner of a bar, drinking alone, he will get more depressed. Now there’s nothing to distract him. Drinking puts you at the mercy of your environment. It crowds out everything except the most immediate experiences.

Here’s another example. One of the central observations of myopia theory is that drunkenness has its greatest effect in situations of ‘high conflict’—where there are two sets of considerations, one near and one far, that are in opposition. So, suppose that you are a successful professional comedian. The world thinks you are very funny. You think you are very funny. If you get drunk, you don’t think of yourself as even funnier. There’s no conflict over your hilariousness that alcohol can resolve. But suppose you think you are very funny and the world generally doesn’t. In fact, whenever you try to entertain a group with a funny story, a friend pulls you aside the next morning and gently discourages you from ever doing it again. Under normal circumstances, the thought of that awkward conversation with your friend keeps you in check. But when you’re drunk? The alcohol makes the conflict go away. You no longer think about the future corrective feedback regarding your bad jokes. Now it is possible for you to believe that you are actually funny. When you are drunk, your understanding of your true self changes. This is the crucial implication of drunkenness as myopia.

## Impacts
Alcohol myopia is a result of alcohol’s effects on the brain:

1. Alcohol reduces activity in the frontal lobe, which governs attention, motivation, and learning. Essentially, it makes the drinker dumber and less capable.
2. Alcohol triggers the brain’s reward centers and increases feelings of euphoria.
3. Alcohol enters the amygdala and makes the drinker less likely to feel threatened or afraid.
4. Alcohol makes its way to the cerebellum, which governs coordination and balance. That is why drunk people often stagger and stumble.
5. And finally in higher doses the hippocampus shuts down.

Which in plain english means, You think less (1), you are less afraid and take more risks (3), you have less control on your body movements(4) and you like it (2). Worst of all you won't remember what you did (5).


## Automated Responses

### Sexual arousal
Alcohol myopia causes individuals to become increasingly aware of sexual arousal and more likely to respond rashly to the arousal stimulus. The decision about how to respond to sexual arousal involves cognitive function that synthesizes both impelling cues (those that draw attention to the benefits of an action) and inhibiting cues (those that focus on the consequences of an action). The alcohol myopia theory suggests that intoxicated individuals will be more likely to engage in risky sexual behavior. Intoxicated males subject to high levels of sexual arousal were more likely to engage in unprotected sex than sober males subject to the same levels of arousal. This is because the impelling cues (sexual arousal) are often more imminent than inhibitory cues (safety precautions), and those affected by alcohol myopia are limited to cognitive processing of the more immediate cues and often ignore the inhibitory cues.

### Drunk driving
The Alcohol Myopia Model proposes that intoxication increases the likelihood that an individual will decide to drive in an unsafe situation. The drinker is unable to properly weigh the future consequences of his or her decision to drive; “inhibitory cues that prohibit driving are less likely to be considered because they lack salience and immediacy." Meanwhile, the intoxicated individual responds to the immediate motivations to drive. For example, he will focus on the rewards of getting home quickly and not having to pay for a cab. Therefore, under the influence of alcohol, driving becomes the simplest and most compelling option. Studies show that when questioned, intoxicated individuals reported “greater intentions to drink and drive...and fewer moral obligations against drinking and driving” than they did when sober