---
layout: 'layout:post'
---

“The shorter your sleep, the shorter your life. The leading causes of disease and death in developed nations—diseases that are crippling health-care systems, like heart disease, obesity, dementia, diabetes, and cancer—all have recognized causal links to a lack of sleep.” – Matthew Walker

## Sleep Deprivation
10 days at 7 hours sleep is all it takes to become as impaired in performance as going without sleep for 24 hours straight.

After all this the subjective sense of how impaired you are is consistently underestimated by your brain i.e You will be impaired and won't know it. Sleep deprivation is so dangerous that even the Guinness Book of records has outlawed any records made on sleep.

HOLY SHIT.

### Medical Effects
- Sleep deprivation amplifies your emotional reactivity by 60% (we swing excessively between positive and negative emotions).
- Reduction of your NREM sleep means your brain can’t clean up toxic debris which is a cause of Alzheimer’s
- One night of just one or two hours less sleep already increases the contracting rate of your heart, increasing systolic blood pressure. It further erodes the fabric of those strained blood vessels, especially the ones in the heart itself.
- *Eating*: The less you sleep, the more you are likely to eat. You become 40% less effective at absorbing sugar → diabetes. Two hormones are hindered— one which is responsible for making you feel full and the other triggers a hunger sensation. When you are not getting enough sleep, the body becomes especially stingy about giving up fat. Instead, muscle mass is depleted while fat is retained. In effect when trying to lose weight forcefully, both cases weight will be lost but in less sleep case it will be loss of muscle whereas in normal case it will be loss of fat.
- *Reproductive Health*
- - Sleep deprived men have: 29% lower sperm count, sperm itself has more deformities. Less testosterone which is responsible for libido and bone density which is required to build muscle
- - For women: 20% drop in follicular releasing hormones which peaks at ovulation and is necessary for conception. 33% higher rate of abnormal menstrual cycles. If sleep less than 8 hours when pregnant, significantly more likely to have a miscarriage
- *Cancer*: Sleep heals the body against foreign bodies ie diseases including cancer. After only one night of four to five hours of sleep, there is a 70% reduction in critical anticancer-fighting immune cells called natural killer cells. he link between sleep deprivation and cancer is now so strong that the World Health Organization classifies any form of nighttime shift work as a probable carcinogen.
- *Heart*: We also know that insufficient sleep impacts your cardiovascular system. During deep sleep at night, you receive a sort of blood pressure medication. Your heart rate & blood pressure drops therefore, if you’re not getting sufficient sleep, you’re not getting that reboot of the cardiovascular system. The result is a rise in blood pressure. Subsequently, if you’re getting <=6 hours, you have a +200% risk of having a fatal heart attack or stroke in your lifetime. The presence of this risk factor is supported by the phenomenon that is daylight savings time (global experiment performed on 1.6 billion people twice a year). When we lose one hour of sleep in the spring, we see a subsequent 24% increase in heart attacks the following day. And consequently rates go down when we go backwards.

### Recycle Rate
An important topic to consider is the recycling rate of humans. Or, more precisely, how long humans can last without sleep before seeing these declines. The answer appears to be about 16 hours of wakefulness. That’s when we start to recognize mental deterioration and physiological deterioration in the body. We know that after you’ve been awake for 19 or 20 hours, you're as impaired as someone who is legally drunk. Therefore, as humans’ recycle rate is 16 hours, we then need about eight hours of sleep to repair the damage of wakefulness. Wakefulness essentially is low-level brain damage.

#### Naps
No matter what you may have heard or read in the popular media, there is no scientific evidence we have suggesting that a drug, a device, or any amount of psychological willpower can replace sleep. Power naps may momentarily increase basic concentration under conditions of sleep deprivation, as can caffeine up to a certain dose. Neither naps nor caffeine can salvage more complex functions of the brain, including learning, memory, emotional stability, complex reasoning, or decision-making.

BHLHE41 Gene allows people to live on 6 hrs rather than 8 but the probability that you have it is less than the fact that you will see an astroid strike.

**WORST CASE SCENARIO**: If a long sleepless night is INEVITABLE (only) then the most optimum way to deal with it is to take a short nap just before the long wake, say in the evening then go for it. This is how pilots deal with the absolute sleep hell they are put through.

### Eating Habbits
The less you sleep, the more you are likely to eat. You become 40% less effective at absorbing sugar → diabetes. Two hormones are hindered— one which is responsible for making you feel full and the other triggers a hunger sensation. When you are not getting enough sleep, the body becomes especially stingy about giving up fat. Instead, muscle mass is depleted while fat is retained. In effect when trying to lose weight forcefully, both cases weight will be lost but in less sleep case it will be loss of muscle whereas in normal case it will be loss of fat.

With that said, it is actually harder to lose weight since staying awake triggers the standard hunger response DESPITE not needing that energy. When awake overtime the body consumes a miniscule amount of energy EXTRA over what it would normally consume per hour even after 24 hours. So where does this extra food go? iykyk. Now on top of wanting more food, the body also starts asking for more sweet and fatty food, i.e if offered both Healthy food and Fats/Sugars the body will instinctively demand for the latter. As a consequence of then when rummaging through the fridge at night, it is possible that the existence of the healthy food does not even occur to you.

# Dreaming
REM sleep accounts for the hallucinogenic, emotional , and bizarre experiences with a rich narrative. REM sleep is a state characterized by strong activation in visual, motor, emotional, and autobiographical memory regions of the brain, yet a relative deactivation in regions that control rational thought.

MRI scans be used to predict with significant accuracy the content of your dreams by matching images of brain activity to baseline templates. While Dreams are not a wholesale replay of our waking lives, Daytime emotions, however, do have some influence over the emotional themes of our dreams.

REM sleep helps us divorce emotion from experience by inhibiting anxiety-triggering molecule Noradrenaline, (norepinephrine) during REM. We can therefore learn and usefully recall salient life events without being crippled by the emotional baggage that those painful experiences originally carried. Dreaming about difficult life events helps people gain clinical resolution from their despair.

Deep NREM sleep strengthens individual memories, as we now know. But it is REM sleep that offers the masterful and complementary benefit of fusing and blending those elemental ingredients together, in abstract and highly novel ways. Sleep builds connections between distantly related informational elements that are not obvious in the light of waking day. This is one of the reasons to why we wake up in the morning and know a random new solution to a problem previously under concern. Relational memory processing receives an accelerated boost from REM sleep.


# Things that are Hindering Sleep
1. Constant electric light as well as LED light
2. Regularized temperature
3. Caffeine
4. Alcohol
5. A legacy of punching time cards.

### Lighting
Artificial evening light will fool your suprachiasmatic nucleus into believing the sun has not yet set. Melatonin is not released on schedule. Evening blue LED light has twice the harmful impact on nighttime melatonin suppression than warm, yellow light from old incandescent bulbs.

Compared to reading a printed book, reading on an iPad suppressed melatonin release by over 50 percent at night & delays the rise of melatonin by up to 3 hours. A good start is to create lowered, dim light in the rooms where you spend your evening hours. Avoid powerful overhead lights. Mood lighting is the order of the night. Some committed individuals will even wear yellow-tinted glasses indoors in the afternoon and evening to help filter out the most harmful blue light that suppresses melatonin.

Maintaining complete darkness throughout the night is equally critical, the easiest fix for which comes from blackout curtains. Finally, you can install software on your computers, phones, and tablet devices that gradually de-saturate the harmful blue LED light as evening progresses.

### Alcohol
More than its artificial sedating influence, alcohol dismantles an individual’s sleep in an additional two ways. Alcohol is perhaps the most misunderstood drug when it comes to sleep. People believe it helps them fall asleep. That’s not true. Alcohol is a type of sedative, which means alcohol is basically just knocking your brain out. You’re not putting it into natural sleep. Research suggests that alcohol will fragment your sleep. So, you’ll wake up many more times throughout the night. Finally, alcohol also blocks dream sleep.

First, alcohol fragments sleep, littering the night with brief awakenings. Alcohol-infused sleep is therefore not continuous and, as a result, not restorative.

Second, alcohol is one of the most powerful suppressors of REM sleep that we know of.

Glib advice aside, what is the recommendation when it comes to sleep and alcohol? It takes your liver and kidneys many hours to degrade and excrete that alcohol, even if you are an individual with fast-acting enzymes for ethanol decomposition. Nightly alcohol will disrupt your sleep, and the annoying advice of abstinence is the best.

### Temperature
Thermal environment, specifically the proximal temperature around your body and brain, is perhaps the most underappreciated factor determining the ease with which you will fall asleep tonight, and the quality of sleep you will obtain. Ambient room temperature, bedding, and nightclothes dictate the thermal envelope that wraps around your body at night.

Core body temp must decrease 2-3 degrees Fahrenheit to initiate sleep. Body temp is controlled by your hands, feet, and head. Warm these areas to draw out heat trapped in the body’s core. A bedroom temperature of around 65 degrees Fahrenheit (**18.3°C**) is ideal for the sleep of most people, assuming standard bedding and clothing.

Knowingly or not, you have probably used this proven temperature manipulation to help your own sleep. A luxury for many is to draw a hot bath in the evening and soak the body before bedtime. We feel it helps us fall asleep more quickly, which it can, but for the opposite reason most people imagine. You do not fall asleep faster because you are toasty and warm to the core. Instead, the hot bath invites blood to the surface of your skin, giving you that flushed appearance. When you get out of the bath, those dilated blood vessels on the surface quickly help radiate out inner heat, and your core body temperature plummets. Consequently, you fall asleep more quickly because your core is colder. Hot baths prior to bed can also induce 10 to 15 percent more deep NREM sleep in healthy adults.

## Pills
**No past or current sleeping medications on the legal (or illegal) market induce natural sleep**. Don’t get me wrong—no one would claim that you are awake after taking prescription sleeping pills. But to suggest that you are experiencing natural sleep would be an equally false assertion.

Those taking sleeping pills were 4.6 times more likely to die over this short two-and-a-half-year period than those who were not using sleeping pills. Further those individuals classified as heavy users, defined as taking more than 132 pills per year, were 5.3 times more likely to die over the study period than matched control participants who were not using sleeping pills.

More alarming was the mortality risk for people who only dabbled in sleeping pill use. Even very occasional users—those defined as taking just eighteen pills per year—were still 3.6 times more likely to die at some point across the assessment window than non-users.

## CBT-I
Cognitive behavioral therapy for insomnia, or CBT-I, and it is rapidly being embraced by the medical community as the first-line treatment.

Working with a therapist for several weeks, patients are provided with a bespoke set of techniques intended to break bad sleep habits and address anxieties that have been inhibiting sleep. CBT-I builds on basic sleep hygiene principles that I describe in the appendix, supplemented with methods individualized for the patient, their problems, and their lifestyle. Some are obvious, others not so obvious, and still others are counterintuitive.

The obvious methods involve reducing caffeine and alcohol intake, removing screen technology from the bedroom, and having a cool bedroom. In addition, patients must

1. Establish a regular bedtime and wake-up time, even on weekends
2. Go to bed only when sleepy and avoid sleeping on the couch early/mid-evenings
3. Never lie awake in bed for a significant time period; rather, get out of bed and do something quiet and relaxing until the urge to sleep returns
4. Avoid daytime napping if you are having difficulty sleeping at night
5. Reduce anxiety-provoking thoughts and worries by learning to mentally decelerate before bed, an
6. Remove visible clockfaces from view in the bedroom, preventing clock-watching anxiety at night.


One brief note of caution regarding physical activity: try not to exercise right before bed. Body temperature can remain high for an hour or two after physical exertion. Should this occur too close to bedtime, it can be difficult to drop your core temperature sufficiently to initiate sleep due to the exercise-driven increase in metabolic rate. Best to get your workout in at least two to three hours before turning the bedside light out (none LED-powered, I trust).