---
layout: 'layout:post'
---

November 1942 when the Americans land on Africa to meet the Nazis for the first time ever. They are surprised to receive fire not from Germans but from their allies the French.

## Set Up
(1941) Churchill is now concerned with the British dependence on Suez Canal for imports of everything and more significantly oil. Hitler establishes Vichy France and is eyeing the French fleet off the coast of Algeria. Churchill sends the Royal Navy to negotiate and take the fleet with an ultimatum to sink or surrender otherwise the British will open fire by EOD. French don't believe this and lo and behold the british 15 inch dreadnoughts open fire. The french will remember this.

FDR who had for now refused to join the war forces Churchill to do it on its own as he simultaneously defends Italy invading Algeria from neighbouring Libya as they charge to the Suez Canal. Churchill now all on his own decides to mobilise the empire and calls for Australians, Kiwis, South Africans and Indians in the fight. These will be a part of nearly 9 million men which Britain will eventually pull out from the empire. Churchill eventually pushes the Italians back deep into Libyan territory as Hitler decides to deploy his personal bodyguard and superstar General Erwin Rommel.

## Rommel
Within days of arriving Rommel who is extremely pleased at the sight of open lands decides to engange in his favourite tactic Bewegungskrieg. Winding days Rommel is able to push the british back across half of Libya till the border.

### Australians
In the eastern end of Libya in Tobruk the Germans encounter Australians. Australians are very ill disciplined soldiers, they don't salute senior officers, they talk smack and hand poor sense of uniform code to an extent that they were called Rats of Tobruk. But they were DAMN GOOD at fighting and hold Rommel for a while allowing the British to regroup and form defensive lines in Egypt.

The war at this point was being fought on a small strip of land along the entire north african coast. Rommel realises that he has access to one more dimension and decides to drive south into the desert and bypasses the LOC (line of control) and starts moving back up into behind british lines. After lasting for 400 days Tobruk falls to the germans thus giving rise to the legend of rommel, The Desert Fox.

Rommel then in 1942 quickly reaches to within striking distance of the suez canal. This however is 1942 and just a few months ago was pearl harbour. Which means America is now in the war. FDR who's generals warn him to not send the not battle ready American Army instead decides to send military support initially. Bulldog (Churchill) then goes to the desert himself and fires all his generals to hire Bernard Montgomery. (Sidenote Monty & Rommel will face off again in DDay)

## Monty
23 Oct '42 Monty launches a counteroffensive. The British decide to attack the fox at night. They use only the moonlight and light from artillery fire to navigate and clear out a path in a half a million minfield over next few days. And at the end bursts out 300 brand new american tanks. After taking heavy fire Rather than waiting for the slow acting British, Rommel decides to withdraw into Tunsian mountains all the way accross Libya. But over his shoulder he notices that American troops are arriving on water with Operation Torch.

100,000 men on 850 Warships have arrived in the middle of the Atlantic. This whole operation thrown together in less than 2 months is about to demonstrate just how much of a superpower America has started to become. Everyone who is been in war for many years is far more experienced than America, so in interest of using Africa also as a side quest in practice, FDR has launched this first ever large scale naval invasion. It took Commander-in-Chief significant effort to overrule his generals to get here and not go to Europe.

Before entering the Mediterranean the Americans decide to make landfall on Allied side french occupied Morocco and France. As soon as the Americans are close to Port Oran despite waving the American flag and calling for a ceasefire the french open fire from land. The French remember Mers El Kabir (Algeria) and the Americans are paying the price of that. At the same time as Oran opening fire, in Morocco the French deploy some small leftover ships from Casablanca to fight America in an open sea battle.

## Landfall
After turning Casablanca into a cemetery the Americans make landfall. The Vichy French local leaders now have a difficult choice to make. Obey their Nazi overlords and risk losing the world or let the Americans in and risk 2 million French POWs which Nazis are holding hostage to bully the Vichy govt. General Darlen of France then decides to stand down and let 100,000 Americans land safely. France is now officially joined the Allied War effort.

American way of fighting war is unforeseen. They don't solve the problems they just overwhelm them. Americans bring with them trucks, tanks, train engines, freight and anything and everything they will need. They also bought 6 tons of Lingerie to gain favours from the locals.

Winter which has now come to North Africa slows down the allies as they close in from both ends towards Tunisia 1000 miles away giving Rommel time to resupply. Rommel decides to attack the Americans first since they are inexperienced and less than a year ago most of them were Shopkeepers, Mechanics and Farmers. American General Fredendall is also inexperienced and performs extremely terribly. As the americans meet the Nazi African Kors its a massacare because of lack of prepration.

In under 48 hours 3000 Americans are KIA & 3000 are CIA, Rommel considers this as a moral success since with less tanks, men and supplies he is able to cause a full nervous breakdown in the American side. FDR had made the right decision and the Americans have now learned that wars are Brutal, Merciless and Arbitrary. They fire Fredendall and look for someone from their ranks and pull out George S Patton (of Operation Bodyguard & Battle of Bulge). Patton was into tank warfare even in WW1 and is able to match Rommel 1 to 1.

The Americans and British combined have caught Rommel between an Anvil & a Hammer. Rommel becomes very depressed and is forced to be flown back to Germany on an operation he believed to be too big to fail. Simultaneously the Axis troops now abandoned surrender to the Americans. 230K Italian and German troops including the infamous Africa Korps surrender. This is one of the largest known surrenders of all time.

### Rommel
In the coming days Rommel will lose not only this but also the DDay landings and then be implicated further in the plot to assassinate Hitler. He is asked (by SS) to commit suicide otherwise his family will be taken into custody and most likely jailed and tortured. Rommel takes the poison provided to him by SS and he is given a hero's funeral.

This is the first ever Allied Win in WW2 and all of North Africa is taken back. The African invasion is also what makes this more significantly a WORLD war with people fighting from all over the world and every single continent played a part in the battle.