---
layout: 'layout:post'
---

On 3rd September 1939 just 8 hours after Chamberlain declared war on Germany, a British ship the SS Athenia was attacked and sunk in the atlantic. This took the life of 120 including 16 children. These would be the first casualties of the 2nd world war. This ship was sunk by Naval Commander Lemp, soon to return to our story.

Goebbels blamed the sinking on the British themselves denying any involvement of german UBoats since even they were aware that civilian vessels are not to be attacked. Britain then imposes strong naval sanctions on the Germans and blocks out the entire passageway for them to exist Europe through the English. The germans however secretly build UBoats (submarines) which they later intended to use to circumvent the treaty of versailles. They soon sign an agreement with the British to allow them to use naval command and immediately roll out their entire UBoat fleet being developed in secret.

## Mechanism
Come WW2 the first of these UBoats enters the British naval base in scotland and torpedoes the Royal Oak ship, the Flagship of the Royal Navy. Nazi Admiral Donitz asked Hitler for 300 UBoats and intended to cripple the entire British supply chain system from water itself. So 1/3rd could be in repairs, rest in training and testing and 100 active in the Atlantic.

This however does not impress General Admiral Erich Raeder who is able to lure Hitler into an even more sparkly object. The New German Flagship Battleship Bismark. So Donitz's request is denied and he is left to 50 UBs. He is however able to still use a Wolf Pack strategy to counter the British Convoy strategy.

The British used a mechanism of bunching together a lot of merchant vessels and then surrounding them with destroyers which then further use depth charges to sink submarines so this also allowed them to minimise their ground area making them harder to stop. On top of all this they had ASDIC (a precursor to the SONAR system) which allowed them to listen to under water comms making the UBs vulnerable since their WolfPack Strategy was heavily dependent on messaging.

The Wolf Pack was a method where the Germans travelled in large numbers parallel lines spread over the whole channel length and as soon as any of them encounter the convoy they would call the neighboring few UBs. They were also able to fire effectively since the British ASDIC system didn't actually work on surface which the UBs used to do to actually fire on the ships. They on top of all this used to encrypt their messages with the Enigma machine which bASDICally made the messages full garbage. Each night the code would be reset and in case of sinking of a ship the cheat sheet would dissolve in water.

This bASDICally made this war a form of 'Tonnage War' where both parties are just fighting numbers.

### Cost
This numbers war had a very large toll of merchant men which is often unmentioned. People would sink and try to swim in water with oil on it and eventually burn or drown or suffocate to death. The neighboring ships couldn't also stop to save anyone since it would risk getting shot at so there would often be a designated ship for saving the drowning men.

## Advancements
Due to lack of supply and shortages the british govt asks people to turn any patch of land they can find into a garden and grow anything they can on it. Meanwhile hitler has taken over france and now has direct access to the atlantic where he starts sinking ship after ship.

The Germans start sending out heavy propaganda glorifying the lifestyle on the submarines, despite the fact that was not actually the truth. Inside the submarines life was much more cramped since it was 35 people stuffed in a very small area who often were told to breathe extremely poor quality air and had to stay quiet for hours and hours. They could hear the destroyers moving from above them since making any small noise would lead to detection. More often than not since they were not allowed to come up if there were any small breach in the hull or any small part of the ship was broken they would all drown or suffocate. The German propaganda however was so strong that they were never short of recruits for the U-boats and this eventually lead to Hitler who then saw the propaganda and commissioned the building of hundreds of more U-boats.

### Breaking the Enigma
Higher volumes of UBoats lead to a higher volume of messages. With this pressure the british govt set up a small team of mathematicians in Bletchley Park who would decode the messages. A Team lead by Alan Turning.

Alan Turing a machine first built by the Polish and then improved it massively to act as a large scale simulator of Enigmas. It would bASDICally run through all feasible outputs and discard the useless ones. 'All Feasible' does not mean 'All Possible' since there are mathematical and statistical tests which allow you to outlaw certain impossibilities. One fatal flaw was also that of all combinations no letter could ever map to itself. Alan Turing was later joined by Joan Clarke who started looking for confirmed patterns in the German messages and these messages were then fed into the Machine ('The Bombe') as guaranteed solutions. These inputs called 'cribs' massively shortened the time of breaking and gave an almost assured solution every time.

## External Help
Britain reached such a poor point that soon he started running out of escort ships to send with the merchants. He then asked other countries for help and being very sympathetic to the British and the war effort help they did. Canada for instance sent out a very large number of ships from their navy of which more than 4,500 sailors died. For a small population like canada that is a huge number.

Churchill then needed help from the Americans so he made his own perilous journey to across the atlantic to meet FDR who were a tough sell due to their isolationist ideas. FDR is favour decides to smartly lend GBR 50 WW1 destroyers in exchange for a 99 year lease of 8 of the British Naval bases. He also sends ships to 'Accompany' the merchant fleet. When someone once asked him how is it not an escort he is famously quoted to say "If, by calling a cow a horse for a year and a half, you think that that makes the cow a horse, I don't think so... Don't you know the difference between a cow and a horse?".

This one time Cmdr Lemp took a lot of damage to a U-110 (UBoat) and left it. But he forgot to make sure it sinks so he swam back to make sure it does. But he doesn't survive the swim and the germans depart thinking that the boat is under. This boat is then captured by the British giving them access to an Enigma machine. This solves any problems Bletchley Park had and finally cracks the enigma. This however gives rise to many ethical dilemmas should we save short term and let the germans know enigma is broken or should we sacrifice the few for the greater good.

## America Enters
In December 1941 after Pearl Harbour the Americans were infuriated and wanted to "Get those rotten basters". FDR now declared war on the Axis. This now means American ships in the Atlantic are now fair game. So the long range german UBoats go and enter the american harbours and in what they called their 'Second Happy Time' sinking more than 400 american vessels and 5000 crew. FDR enraged starts a massive ship building campaign and order 8 million tonnes of ships to be built so anything which sunk was almost instantaneously replaced. These were the Liberty Ships.

America however prioritized the Pacific war over the Atlantic leaving the number of escorts even less than they were before US entered the war. And on top of this Donitz now suspects that someone has ratted out the secrets (not that someone broke the machine) and asks for the Enigma to have a 4th wheel added. So to counter this new UB menace GBR sets up a tactical division of navy made up of the Women's Naval Command then called the Wrens.

These wrens un operation Raspberry where they are able rerun every single sinking as a simulation and develop patterns and counter tactics. These tactics are then taught to 1000s of naval officers by the wrens who are applauded for their work. The navy then asks for very long range aircrafts to reach the Atlantic Black Hole a large gap between the american and british islands outside the range of standard aircrafts where the UBs used to hide. The navy however were denied the bombers which were instead given to Cmdr "Bomber" Harris who intended to bomb germany into submission.

The Royal Navy then briefly used brute force to sink the Bismark which was then 1/4th the fleet strength. Raeder is demoted and Donitz is given Cmdr in Chief and 300 UBoats are now commissioned albeit a little to late. Tides have now turned with RADAR, long range bombers and extra tech advancement. Eventually May 1943 in Black May Donitz loses 40 UBoats in a single month due to Allied Superiority.

The Allies have now gained control of the Atlantic which means they will now land on Normandy.