---
layout: 'layout:post'
---

Based on the basic axioms of the Communist Manifesto. The book was written more than 170 years ago, it will very obviously be largely unreliable considering we have learnt a lot.

## History is to be viewed primarily as an economic class struggle
This is very debatable out of the bat, people have many motivations other than just economics. For starters economic competition is just one part of economics, there is also economic co-operation which has been completely left out.

To give the devil it's due, this is not history, this is biology itself, we know about the lobster mind of the human and therefore we know that biology is absolutely Hierarchically driven it its very core. By nature hierarchically driven structures tend to 'winner take all' (tyranny to be generous). There is sufficient evidence to show that this has been going on since the paleolithic times, long before capitalism even existed. Competition is inherent to biology (not just humans), not capitalism.

The place Marx primarily goes wrong is in that human beings struggle not just because of economics, there are far more forms of struggle such as the most fundamental being at struggle with oneself, from the amount of Malevolence a human is capable of doing. Or another fundamental struggle is ones that human beings have from nature itself, something Marxism as a whole forgets. Its a struggle for life in a cruel natural world infested with disease, disaster and indeterminateness.

Human beings problems' are not limited to economics. We come into this world starving and lonesome, we try to get around to solving that problem to death. In fact that is the only problem we worry about till we die universally.

Marx assumes that all hierarchies are bad. This is not true, hierarchies can be positive also. For instance problem solving is a matter of efficiency and hierarchies is the most efficient form to allocate resources and solve the problem. It is finally the case that today in all of evolution, hierarchies is very less about power and more about competence.

*Commentary:* Consider for instance the difference between Hate and disgust. When we hate something we just want to get away from it. When we disgust something we want to burn it to the ground and not have it ever exist. Hitler frequently refers to everyone he ends up killing as 'Vermin, Rats' etc frequently in his conversations as recorded. This is his own struggle with his nature. It was this struggle that drove him to eventually do a genocide. This had nothing to do with economics.

## All economic struggle is binary, proletariat and bourgeoisie
This is not always true. It is possible to always find an axis of disproportionately for everyone in any form of segmentation into identity be it education, wealth or religion. This was specially true in the russian revolution where the number of ways of classifying anyone as bourgeois kept on increasing as opposed to proletariat, the reason to why the Red Terror claimed the number of lives it did. This was most evidently shown by the demolition of the Kulaks, who had managed to raise themselves into a better situation by serve-dom of over a 40 year period and managed to gather some material security. 1.8M of them were exiled. 400K were killed. The removal of their property arguably caused the death of 6M Ukrainians in the 1930s famine.

The binary class struggle also has a small slight of hand which Marx tried to pull which is not true. There is a fundamental assumption throughout that ALL the evil is with the bourgeoisie (the supposed oppressors) and ALL the good is with the proletariat. This is classical identity politics thought line where once groups are assigned all you have to do is pit them against each other, it is very easy to assume that ALL THE EVIL in this world is because of the hypothetical so called oppressors. It is absolutely foolish to decide someone's moral worth just with their economic standing.

## The proletariat dictatorship
Marx says that the proletariat should then have a call to arms and a bloody revolution to overthrow all forms of social structures that exist. This would be lead by a proletariat dictator (with no explanation whatsoever on how one will be selected). The fundamental assumption is that this dictator now with all this newfound power cannot be corrupted. Why? You forgot because we are also assuming that all the good is on the side of the proletariat. *Damn there are too many assumptions which conveniently get me out of troubles so easily, I love it*.

Marxists very fundamentally believe that social pressure is the reason to all why all this evil exists. Then with that in mind it is a very stupid idea to assume that all the proletariat which are now in the place of the bourgeoisie will not corrupt to the power. This is exactly what happened every single time this experiment was run. USSR, China, Germany, Hungary and many more.

With no specification of how these people in power will be chosen. There is no way a group of individuals can replace something as complex as the capitalist free market system which by the way is a free market, so it is automatic, it runs itself. The assumption that humans who were allegedly being oppressed by it will be able replace a system size automaton is absolutely foolish.

## The capitalists don't do any valid labour
This is true, if the aforementioned capitalist is an deluded aristocrat in 1830 who is chasing prostitutes as his feudal state is in absolute chaos. That labour is measurably 0. On the other hand a manager running a multi billion dollar corporation is working arguably if not more AT LEAST as much as every other member of the company.

Claiming that managers add 0 value to a product is a claim that you either don't know how actual businesses work or refuse to know how actual businesses work. Take any manager for sample case. Make them disappear. What happens to the product?
Lets see a few example of 2020
- If Tim Cook or Satya Nadella or Sundar Pichai disappear, Apple (/MS/Google) does not have a face anymore and the single link they have between different branches disappears.
- If say the worker line supervisor disappears, the work line has suddenly stopped. The workers don't know how to restart it. The whole company or at the very minimum the whole division starts losing money per second.

A management system is a hierarchy of abstractions which continuously simplify the system at each level and look at the bigger picture. So there are people who are looking at the micro picture at the very bottom and people looking at the big picture at the very top. Management does not stand in a field sweating does not mean they are not putting in the effort. Consider Tim Cook how now has to deal with the massive lawsuits from Epic and Facebook and many other micro, he has to deal with the US Congress, he has to make sure all the branches of the company are talking to each other, he has to make sure all customers are satisfied with the product and that the satisfaction is increasing. And on top of all this he has to make sure the company continues to innovate.

## The criticism of profit
What is the problem with profit. If a capitalist is able to add value to any product he should very well be entitled to profit in exchange. Profits also add a small amount of pushback to the company itself such that the there is no wasted labour.

The other argument is. Lets say corporations don't make profit. How are they to grow? How are they to become any larger than out of a garage. Or say, if a company does not profit, how is it to save up for a rainy day. Like say the market crashes one day, if the company does not have surplus to pay its workers, it will be forced to lay off the proletariat. *I played that well didn't I*.

## The new proletariat dictatorship will be hyperproductive
Given all the impossibilities associated with stably making a proletariat dictatorship in the first place, THIS IS JUST ABSURD. And its not even justified

HOW MARX HOW!!??

## Admittance
The Communist Manifesto over and over again states that there have never in history been a system as effective a capitalism which can produce goods materially, effectively, efficiently and in excess. If the whole objective is to have material security for everyone as much as possible as fast as possible, wouldn't the logical explanation be to let capitalism continue as is...?

## Closing Remarks
Marx and Engel were indisputably very smart. But they weren't great social scientists. Every scientist also thinks of the consequences of what he or she proposed. Not once did Marx ask, "In what ways can this go terribly wrong?".

Marx assumes that capitalism will always make the rich richer and poor poorer. Its not capitalism that extremises inequality, it is Charles Darwin. We do not know how to make a system in which there is not some or the other form of inequality including communism. Its just a different kind of inequality. The inherent magic to capitalism is that while capitalism produces inequality. It also produces wealth, which the other systems don't. They only produce inequality.

## Statistics
From 1800 to 2017 adjusted for inflation, income growth was 40x for production workers and 16x for unskilled labour. GDP went up by a factor of 0.5 from **1 AD to 1800**. In the last 220 years it was just huge \
**Implications**: The poorest of the poor are getting richer now faster than they have ever been in the history of the world COMBINED.

United Nation's in their millennium goals said that they aimed to reduce poverty by 50% by 2015 (from 2000), they met that target in 2012. They are claiming that we will be out of poverty completely before 2030.
So the rich are getting richer. But the poor are getting richer too.