---
layout: 'layout:post'
---

# Youtube Copyrights
A brief discussion on copyright laws and the role youtube plays in it. Because we all want to vilify the big corporations till we actually need them.

## The mess right now
in 2019 A Minecraft streamer had 100s of his videos receive a copyright notice from Warner Chappel based on YT ContentID. While it was legitimate to say that if Oli asked the composer for permission then there should be no problem in using the video. But it turns out (the second part of the story which people don't see before outraging) that the Composer who made the music had actually sampled the music from another piece that belong to Warner Chappel. So the copyright claim was solid. 

## Music
How is music copy righted? First there is a composition itself, which can be copyrighted based on the lyrics or any parts that can be written down. (REF: 17 US Code 114). Second EACH individual recorded performance is also copyrighted. 

So if you use Beethoven in a video, since Beethoven's works are now in public domain, if you play it, you're golden. But if it is someone else's performance, you have to get the lic from them also for their hard work. 

You can however use some pieces of work under "Fair Use: 17 USC 107" (USA) and "Fair Dealing: Copyright, Designs and Patents Act 1988, 29-30" (UK, much stricter). These can be used if I am criticising or reviewing the particular piece of music. I  CANNOT however use its artwork in the video because that is a separate copyright altogether. 

In 2009 Andy Baio released an 8 bit cover of Miles Davis: Kind of Blue and used an 8 bit picture of it as cover art. While the song was free to use, the cover was not and he had to settle out of court with the photographer who took the original picture of the album cover for $30K. Baio said it was fair use, and Maisel said it wasn't. And Maisel had lawyers. 

There is also a separate lic called 'Compulsory Licence' which is applied for selling and performing just music. If you want to post a video of you playing a uke in a bedroom that requires a separate 'Synchronisation Licence' to go along with it which also you have to License. 

A PARODY IS NOT FAIR USE, unless you are absolutely criticising the song in the new changed lyrics. 'Weird' Al Yankovic one of the most famous parody artists, Licenses every song he uses. Weather or not he needs to is a different question. (I am not saying anything on how it should be, just how it is.)

## Usage
Commentary: It is usually seen that people like to hold the law to standard only when it punches down. If a YouTuber uses a 5 second clip of a movie to make a joke, no one bats an eye. If a movie studio uses a 5 second clip of the YouTuber there will be lawyers lining up to take the case. The law however likes to hold the law same for Disney Studios and some small YouTube Creator kid in his dorm room. However in both cases it is 100% fair for both creators to claim copyright and sue.

The following statements 

- NO COPYRIGHT INFRINGEMENT INTENDED. I DO NOT OWN THESE SONGS, FOR INSPIRATION (/or equivalently entertainment) PURPOSES ONLY
- I OWN NOTHING, THE CLIP BELONGS TO MARVEL AND DISNEY. THE MUSIC IS OWNED BY IMAGINE DRAGONS. FOR ENTERTAINMENT PURPOSES ONLY
- This video can be considered transformative under fair use copyright law. 

ARE ALL ABSOLUTE BULLSHIT. They don't mean anything, they will just attract ignorant iGens and NOT ward of any lawyers. These statements are not some magic cross incantation which will ward off copyright lawyers you moron. 

The 'Distracted Boyfriend Picture' and 'Hide the Pain Harold' picture both very popularly used in memes are both copyrighted. The owners of the photo can claim copyright for 100% of every single one of those pictures if they are not an absolute criticism of the person, imagery, camerawork, meaning etc. When asked 'Distracted Boyfriend Picture' photographer says "I don't mind people using it since I know they are all under good faith and hence I don't take action, If I think it isn't good faith I will". The creator is being generous here, should he wish to he can 100% rake in millions. 

Pixy for Images and Junkin Media for video clips have been massively vilified for using their clips. But they are 100% in the right. Go ask a photographer some day how much their equipment costs and how they make their money. Using someone else's work is NOT under fair use EVEN IF 1000s of other people have used it, EVEN IF you add text on it or use it in other photo bunches. THEY ARE LIABLE TO BE SUED 100% if they are not explicitly criticisms. (Again this is no comment on how it should be but how it is)

In 2019 for example giphy briefly removed 1000s of images of baby Yoda since they were all owned by disney. After which disney decided to let the public use the images. While it is true that there are several articles which claim that Images in Gifs are 'Widely Understood' as being under fair use. WIDELY UNDERSTOOD DOES NOT MEAN THEY ARE, PEOPLE CAN UNDERSTAND WRONG YOU DIMWIT. People also Widely understand that there are 206 bones in the human body, when that's not really true for more than like 2-3 years in a 100 year life is it. 

Giphy's whole business model IS technically, copyright infringement. Footage of games are also liable to copyright laws. The Minecraft lic explicitly states that you are allowed to stream it and use videos of it on YouTube if it is your own creation. How ever if you take a generic scene or follow extremely generic paths, the line is a bit grey there. Unless the player is actively criticising the came in play in realtime, IT IS NOT fair use. 

While a solid argument can be made that it exposes the game more. But 'Game exposure' does not pay the rent of the few inde developers who made Gris and don't have large corporations backing them. I for example can just see a video of it and decide I don't want to buy the game because I don't like its ending. The guy whose video I saw got money from it, but the inde college kid developers didn't. Most game publishers are just going along with this probably as a sign of generosity, but legally they can claim copyright should they wish to.

## Grey Areas
Mystery Science Theatre 3000 (1989) was released on TV. A TV Show basically about people in the future watching classic SciFi shows and constantly making jokes about whatever was on the screen. Time Mag has called it one of 100 greatest TV shows of all time. It was basically the OG reaction channel. It has been brought back multiple times including by Kickstarter and Netflix. DESPITE the fact that they could have been argued to have been fair use criticisms, they still negotiated and paid for every lic that there was because ultimately they wouldn't have the money to defend for the cases. But it is not completely widely accepted unanimously if it was necessary to lic or not.

H3H3 one time won a court case basis the fact that they had taken a clip second by second and made a transformative change to it to make it 'fodder for caustic, moment by moment mockery' from just a skit. The court also clarified that not all reaction videos are fair use. This was an exceptional case. 

## Content ID
In 2006, YT made a deal with all the large media companies on behalf of all the creators so that the companies would not sue the creators and the platform out of existence. This deal works OUTSIDE the standard copyright system. The whole deal is summarised in 2 terms, one Private one between YT and companies and one we as a user, the bedroom vlogger make with YouTube. YT matches your entire video against a prebuilt database and allots content IDs to it. This does not make us immune to all copyright laws, but in general it means that unless the creator is specifically trying to get attention or act in bad faith, they don't get sued or get DMCA take downs. 

Note: What is good faith is a very different argument from what is Not Bad faith. What is not bad faith is almost explicitly defined. What is absolute good faith is basically the law, everything else in between is grey area. 

In case YouTube algo misses the content id, the companies also have the power to request content id mark which the user can also then appeal. (This is the process so far, the arguments for or against the ethics of its usage are up for toss up, both sides arguments are muddled with survivor bias or confirmation bias).

Tom Scott one time had a video which a Thai TV show used in their tv show and put ALL of it up for content id. So tom Scott got a content id claim for his own video. "That took a while to sort out". 

In case the content id system fails anywhere, the Law is used as the default fallback. Content ID is not perfect, for instance it has failed to deal with white noise, legit reviews and countless other cases. Content ID is designed around a concept which make it just one big edge case. So content ID is not broken, the system is. Content ID is just one way to patch it up so that people can be creative online. 

Youtube has no competition because it is horrendously expensive to run a video hosting site. You have to either be a subscription or the worlds largest advertising company. Most kids who think posting videos online and using it in all sorts of ways 'is their right' are legally wrong. Youtube is just trying to protect them from falling into a lawsuit. 

## Solution
What is fair use is explicitly almost impossible to define since creativity is messy so will its usage. So it would be better to do 2 things

- Rewrite or at least update Copyright Law globally
- Create a small claims court to speed up the judgement process (Like in UK, Intellectual Property Enterprise Court)

The American version of Solution 2 (CASE Act) is joke, it is basically made such a way that the corporation can eventually take you to federal court anyway so the power resides with the rich. The current copyright rule is Death of Artist + 70 years, for corporations it is 95 years. THAT IS TOOO BLOODY LONG. Shorten it by at least say 20 years. Public domain is very important, other wise the 100s of Sherlock Holmes remakes and spinoffs wouldn't be possible. It is why Shakespeare can be adapted and performed in 100s of ways with All the worlds a stage, or Romeo and Juliet or 10 things I hate about you or Lion King... sorry typo I meant Hamlet. 