---
layout: 'layout:post'
---

## Reproducibility Crisis
For natural selection to take place within a system there need not exist reproduction. As laid out by Charles Darwin, the primary requirements of Natural Selection are: \
Variation \
Heredity \
Selection

For example the replication crisis was created in the following way, \
Variation: The Existence of Different methods of testing and experimentation \
Heredity: Graduate Students \
Selection: Who gets Jobs and therefore who gets published

While in theory we should be selecting for truth, we tend use a reasonable proxy for that as number of publications, in the best journals. But Proxies are problematic

## Goodhart's Law
As soon as the measure becomes the target, it ceases to be a good measure anymore. Say there is a mountain with gold mines on it. So to measure productivity miners are told those who sell the most gold will keep their jobs and get promoted. So say mountain has rare gold, but abundant fool's gold. And we think that its difficult to spot the difference so we let the system proceed. But in reality this isn't the case.

So what will happen is in the long term, people who look for fools gold will start flooding the market with it and get promoted but those honestly looking for proper gold will get fired due to low productivity. This will create a cycle of natural selection which will then make people look for fools gold only killing out the honest ones.

This same scenario has been seen in society time and again. The method to an outcome of a problem is not the same as the solution to a problem. The Rat Crisis in London, The Absolute Equality objective in Soviet Union, The measurement of truth by number of research papers etc.

## The Crisis
The publish or perish mentality has created a very big problem. Since reproduction of papers is not incentivized, science with no basis once in circulation becomes ground truth even if it has absolutely no basis whatsoever. Any scientific data with enough stir is good enough to show reasonable correlations. Statistics is wired, correlations are abundant even in places where it has no meaning like as per US CDC Per capita CHeese consumption and people dying by getting tangled in their bedsheets has a correlation of 0.9471. Let me repeat that. **0.9471**. That is ridiculous even by Experimental Physicists' standards. But yet there is no causation there

This becomes less obvious in the soft sciences. Which to put it mildly results in *a fuck load* of useless papers. This is good for the scientist. But not for Science. This is an example of natural selection where the individual wins but the community loses. These people all have used less rigorous methods or lower thresholds or manipulating numbers or combinations of these sometimes even by chance. These people are going to have more papers, do better, have more students who will copy their methods and so on the cycle repeats and propagates the methods.

The amount of mentions of the word Novel, Groundbreaking, Remarkable etc have gone up by 2500% in 20-30 years. But very obviously scientific research has not gone up by nearly as much. So where is the gap? People are trying to be hyper productive as opposed to hyper competitive. Peter Higgs did not publish anything for 5 years before he came up with Higgs Boson, in an interview he is said "Today I would never get hired, I'm just not productive enough by today's standards". All people who are doing the most ground breaking stuff in the modern world are not Taylor Swift i.e the most productive ones always in the limelight. But they are all Adele and Bruno Mars the one who disappears for 4 years and then comes back to sweep away all awards in a single night.

## How do these come to the public?
A lot of these papers even from the hard sciences get distilled down into amazing insights and small statements which are made more to astound and less to educate. Pop Science is created by the modern market of people with Shit Attention Spans and computers with Breathtaking Information Spans. While pop sci is good for the general public who wants an introduction to the basics on a topic without becoming a 4 year grad student on general relativity.

So what in pop sci is popular and what is science? Things change when Malcolm Gladwell writes a book, it becomes the talk, it becomes the public culture. It becomes the ground truth. He takes a belief you have, systematically breaks it down, and produces a series of arguments to challenge them. This is all based on science which isn't popular, but is made to challenge you and think and question your basic assumptions. These then get distilled down by people into short snippets devoid of all context and nuance into "It takes 10,000 hours to become an expert" and that becomes popular. But isn't science.

Interesting ideas are not those which challenge your strongly held beliefs but only the weakly held ones. Challenging someone's perception of success which might actually be true is much easier than to challenge their perception of religion which almost definitely is false. People like to be challenged, but only a little bit, not too much. We take Malcolm's books at face value, but rip apart his article on Marijuana.

## Distillation
Pop sci becomes pop only if people are able to remember what they heard. This will not happen if there is too much nuance or grey area in the topic. So things like TED and all are designed to FORCEFULLY distill down a topic for the general audience. So context gets lost. These all get compressed down into "The 10,000 Hour Rule", "7 Habbits of Really Effective People" etc etc. Good communicators know that people won't remember 99.99% of what was said and therefore package everything into a tiny small fractional conclusion to remember. TED is not any arguments at all, its just a story and a conclusion.

Johann Hari wrote a book Chasing the Scream on addictions. His whole conclusion was **disconnection *primarily*, not chemicals causes addiction**. In his TED talk the world 'Primarily' evaporated over night. See how they are two very very different concepts and context was just killed? 400 pages cannot be put into 15 minutes TED please. To his credit he has been explicit and clear in every long form discussion he has had, but TED effectively killed his message.

## Pop ~Sci~
Pop sci often becomes popular not by being backed by science but by having the IMAGE of being backed by science. For example a research paper by Wirtz on meta analysis of selling sex concluded that in his own words 'Sex in advertising: is complicated...' but people took the liberty to interpret the paper in a way they get most publicity and just said "sex doesn't sell". It's so obvious for it to be complicated, it will clearly sell Sports Illustrated but not the new Macbook Pro. The articles always cite this article and therefore look reputable, because 99% people can't read the paper since its not free, another 0.5% will not read it off the accord of blind faith and finally of the last 0.5% half will ignore the article in case of a difference and the other half will not be able to make a difference because of the 99.75% odds stacked against them. (These are not exact numbers, just making a point).

Adam Grant who wrote Originals WITH a scientific background and being a master communicator claims that procrastination feeds creativity. But this needs context, not a TED talk. This works only in specific scenarios. Playing Super Mario for 8 hours in a day is not working on Divergent Ideas and Non Linear Thinking. When Prof Steele asked Grant for the research he used to write his book since then most other literature was basically 'maybe' and 'perhaps' but Grant refused to give his Grad Student's paper because it was under review. YOU CAN GIVE TED TALKS AND BOOKS BUT NOT A REQUEST FOR COMMENT. WHY AND HOW? WHile this doesn't mean its wrong. Its ethically wrong to cite something that technically doesn't exist in the open world.

I have done this whole articles with precise things I have mentioned not to fall for. The problem with pop sci is mainly that there does not exist any self correcting mechanism AND people also don't fact check what they see.

## Cutting Edge
Creating pop sci is a matter of consumption; people rush to create, find and publish stories on the most recent scientific literature. The problem with cutting edge research is also that is is the bleeding edge. It is not perfect, it has caveats and limitations. Often the research also has directly conflicting interpretations and results choosing one of which is incredibly misleading. According to the American Journal of Clinical Nutrition had concluded that when studies are cherry picked carefully, THE SAME certain common foods can be shown to cause cancer. And prevent it.

For example Jon Ronson went to the Bronx and spoke to kids who said we read in "Tipping Point" by Gladwell that Agressive Policing works. I think we all saw what 2020-2021 in america was like...? Pop sci in the real world can have real consequences. While Gladwell is saying "All I say is by way of discourse and not by way of advice" it is unfortunately having very real dangerous consequences.


Ref: Coffee Break, Youtube