---
layout: 'layout:post'
---

## Provability
While Cantor was able to state the hypothesis he was not able to prove it. The trouble arose in 1931, when the Kurt Gödel discovered that any set of axioms that you might posit as a foundation for mathematics will inevitably be incomplete. There will always be questions that your list of ground rules can’t settle, true mathematical facts that they can’t prove.

As Gödel suspected right away, the continuum hypothesis is such a case: a problem that’s independent of the standard axioms of mathematics. These axioms, 10 in all, are known as ZFC (for “Zermelo-Fraenkel with the axiom of Choice”), and they undergird almost all of modern math. The axioms describe basic properties of collections of objects, or sets. Since virtually everything mathematical can be built out of sets (`the empty set () denotes 0, for instance; (()) denotes 1; ((),(())) denotes 2, and so on`), the rules of sets suffice for constructing proofs throughout math.

In 1940, Gödel showed that you can’t use the ZFC axioms to disprove the continuum hypothesis. Then in 1963, the American mathematician Paul Cohen showed the opposite —you can’t use them to prove it, either. Cohen’s proof, together with Gödel’s, means the continuum hypothesis is independent of the ZFC axioms; they can have it either way.

<div style="font-size:2em">
  HOLY SHIT!
</div>

## Forcing
When Gödel discovered that there are somethings in Mathematics that cannot be proven using the existing axioms he basically said the equivalent of that a given statement does not lie on our world of mathematics. It belongs to a different planet and on those world's these statements can be shown to be true. But we don't know how to get there or which world in the first place.

Paul Cohen then invented a method called The Forcing Technique, which is basically a telescope that allows us to observe other worlds and then use the telescope on those worlds to observe more different worlds. Before the forcing technique our world of mathematics was the center, but now its just one of many.

What was virtual and what was real? WHICH of two conflicting objects, dreamed up by different forcing procedures, should be permitted? It wasn’t clear when or even whether an object, really exists. To address this problem, mathematicians posed various “forcing axioms” — rules that established the actual existence of specific objects rendered possible by Cohen’s method. Magidor, Foreman and Shelah took this ethos to its logical conclusion by posing Martin’s maximum, which says that anything you can conceive of using any forcing procedure will be a true mathematical entity, so long as the procedure satisfies a certain consistency condition.

Due to Martin’s maximum (++), in order to simultaneously permit all those products of forcing (while satisfying that constancy condition), the size of the continuum jumps only to a conservative ℵ<sub>2</sub>— one cardinal number more than the minimum possible value.

++ became massively popular as an extension of ZFC. In the 1990s, Woodin proposed another compelling axiom against continuum hypothesis and pins the continuum at ℵ<sub>2</sub> but by a totally different route. Woodin named the axiom (*), pronounced “star”. (\*) concerns a model universe of sets that satisfies the nine ZF axioms plus the axiom of determinacy (ZFD), rather than the axiom of choice. Determinacy and choice logically contradict each other, which is why (\*) and ++ seemed irreconcilable. But Woodin devised a forcing procedure by which to extend his model mathematical universe into a larger one that is consistent with ZFC, and it’s in this universe that the (\*) axiom holds true.

What makes (\*) so illuminating is that it lets mathematicians make statements of the form “For all X, there exists Y, such that Z” when referring to properties of sets within the domain. Such statements are powerful modes of mathematical reasoning. One such statement is: “For all sets of ℵ<sub>1</sub> reals, there exist reals not in those sets.” This is the negation of the continuum hypothesis. Thus, according to (\*), Cantor’s conjecture is false.

Choosing one would mean sacrificing another. But a new paper shows how both can be done at the same time.

## L-forcing
The plan of attack for deriving the (\*) from the (++) was to develop a forcing procedure similar to L-forcing with which to generate a type of object called a witness. This witness verifies all statements of the form of (\*). So long as the forcing procedure obeys the requisite consistency condition, (++) will establish that the witness, since it can be forced to exist, exists. And thus (*) follows.



## Read More
[QuantaMagazine | How many Numbers?](https://www.quantamagazine.org/how-many-numbers-exist-infinity-proof-moves-math-closer-to-an-answer-20210715/)