## Cross Flags
### Nordic
FORMAT: [BACKGROUND, CROSS COLOUR, if STRIPE]

**Denmark**:🇩🇰 Legend says that the Dannebrog fell from the sky in Estonia (a NOT nordic country) around ~1220 AD. The Danes were therefore the first to adopt a cross flag with [RED, WHITE]

**Iceland**:🇮🇸 Adopted when the country gained independence from Denmark in 1944. The colors officially have no symbolism, the cross is to symbolise the ties with the nordic countries [BLUE, RED, WHITE]

**Finland**:🇫🇮 The flags was adopted when the country gained independence from Russia. The white symbolises the snow of the country and blue symbolises the water in the land of a 1000 lakes. The cross is obviously nordic [WHITE, BLUE]

**Sweden**:🇸🇪 One of the oldest flags in the region and is been known to be inspired from the danish flag, the earliest depiction is from the 1600s where the colours could be seen on flags, the shields and court of arms. Blue and Yellow have always been traditional swedeish colours. [BLUE, YELLOW]

**Norway**:🇳🇴 Flag designed in 1821 and the cross obviously again is for nordic association. The red is for the danish union from 1397-1814 and the blue is for union with sweden from 1814-1905.

**Aland & Faroe Islands**:🇫🇴 Adopted for similar colours for similar reasons.

**Greenland**:🇬🇱 Nvm this tbh.

### British
**England**:🏴󠁧󠁢󠁥󠁮󠁧󠁿 While England is in the same region and has very close proximity and even has some resemblance in economic success, the cross on its flag is purely coincidental and came about for very different reasons. They are not nordic.

The St George Cross flag is actually used for England, Genoa, Paroa, Bologna etc etc. St George was probably a dude who killed a dragon and became a saint.

Thr first flag (3 lions) was of Richard I around 1100s. Richard's father Henry II was the first Plantagenet king of England who was preceeded by the Norman (later associated also to Normandy) kings who also probably had a lion on their flag. The Danish before the Normans also were speculated to have a lion but we have no evidence. A few gens later Richard III attacked France and declared himself king of France also Adopting the Fleur Elysée and making a new 3 lions and fleur flag still on the Coat of Arms of england to this day.

During reign of Edward I in the 2nd Baron's war when a few Barons rebelled against him the royal troops were wearing Red Crosses who did so to differentiate themselves from the enemy who wore White Crosses. The popular story this sounds similar to crusades but that is independent of this since St George was a popular dude and that too the French were the red cross whereas the english were the white cross and the English probably adopted the cross from there. So in chronology, *English take Red Cross from French in crusades and use in 2nd Barons war*.

For lost of the middle ages there were multiple different flags and shields being used: The Red Cross, The Edwards Cross, the 3 crowns etc etc. Then in the mid 1500s during the English Reformation the king decided that the St George will be the only flag used since everything else represented the church and popery and etc. The dudes became protestant AF.

Then in 1606 after the Union of England and Scotland they decided to fuse the flags and create a new flag 🏴󠁧󠁢󠁥󠁮󠁧󠁿 + 🏴󠁧󠁢󠁳󠁣󠁴󠁿  = 🇬🇧 the Union or more popularly the Union Jack. (In all fairness there was an intermediate before the diagonal red stripes were added to signify Ireland's St Patricks Saltire). The union jack is now a part of a shit load of flags, well because...hmm. LORD SAVE THE GRACIOUS QUEEEEEEN #Colonisation.


# PRIME STORIES
## Big Explosions
All of the following have 2 conditions: 1. They must be in recorded history. 2. They cannot cause mass extinctions on earth. So KT event and all are excluded.

[Halifax](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Halifax_Explosion): **2.9Kt TNT** The biggest *man made non nuclear* explosion so far has been the halifax explosion where two ships collided with each other and one of them was loaded to the absolute capacity with explosives. The ship was completely blown apart and a powerful blast wave radiated away from the explosion initially at more than 1,000 metres per second. Temperatures of 5,000 °C and pressures of 1000s of atmospheres accompanied the moment of detonation at the centre of the explosion. White-hot shards of iron fell down upon Halifax and Dartmouth.

[Tsar Bomba](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tsar_Bomba): **58Mt TNT** The biggest *man made* explosion so far has been the tsar bomba hydrogen bomb by Soviet Union. The mushroom cloud of Tsar Bomba was seen from a distance of 161 km. The crown of the cloud was 65 km high at the time of the picture. When detonation occurred, the shock wave caught up with the Tu-95V at a distance of 115 km and the Tu-16 at 205 km. The Tu-95V dropped 1 kilometre in the air because of the shock wave but was able to recover and land safely.

[Mount Tambora](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/1815_eruption_of_Mount_Tambora): **33Gt TNT** The biggest *natural terrestrial* explosion so far has been the 1815 Mount Tambora. The whole planet was engulfed in smoke for about a year and global temperatures went into a nosedive. This is the only known eruption of magnitude VEI-7.

[Tunguska Event](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tunguska_event): **30Mt TNT** The biggest *natural extra-terrestrial* explosion on earth so far has been the Tunguska Event in Siberia, Russia. The whole planet was engulfed in smoke for about a year and global temperatures went into a nosedive. This is the only known eruption of magnitude VEI-7.

[Ophiuchus Supercluster eruption](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ophiuchus_Supercluster_eruption): **Unknown** Well its in space and its a supermassive blackhole domino effect. What more to say

## Gurgaon (ggn)
The design of ggn has one major factor going for it. It is very very close to India's capital Delhi. So despite there being no Govt, the city has grown very fast. In 1957 The Delhi Development Act banned private real estate developers leaving nowhere to go but delhi. This was in turn hastened by Sanjay Gandhi who wanted to create a new car as the symbol of India and chose ggn as the place for that.

The Govt initially argued that the focus of the Govt should be on mass transit and not personal cars but owing to his status they folded. The car failed completely and was bought out by suzuki.

### Land
Maruti by 80's had started employing 20K workers in the city. Land laws being complicated and convoluted in india like non transferability or non heredity make the job harder except for in ggn where all land was under one single office. This got rid of all the beauracracy and mitigated most of the corruption.

Very soon due to lack of red tape and one single office Coca-Cola, GE, MicroSoft, AmEx, IndiGo etc settled in the city due to cheap labour. This caused a boom of 125K in 80s to 1.5M in 2020s. This also caused a boom in quality infra development where while delhi was badly made and poorly constructed ggn had great infra with complexes and pool houses.

### Demand and Supply
To generate more growth the companies simply created supply and generated demand for it. Rapid Metro is also the world's first 100% private modern metro system. To sponsor the projects the creator company auctioned off stations to recoup some of the fixed costs eg, Vodafone Belvedere Tower Station.

2/3rd of the city isn't even connected to the main sewage line, the waste is collected in a septic tank and dumped outside city walls. The city however had only 14 fire trucks when the Govt mandated 42 for a city of its size in 2008 that too with a max spray height of 40m in a city with buildings conveniently more than 2-3x that. The public system only as 4K security personnel whereas the private sector maintains 35K.

### Municipality
Despite already having 1M people the centre created a municipality for the first time in 2008 that too with almost 0 power, all they basically did was rename the city name which also was not given a lot of heed. When living in ggn if you are in one of the Godrej, Emaar or DLF owned estates you will have a life where tiger woods may play on your golf course but outside that life may not be so ideal. Extreme flooding will be common, electricity is sporadic, wasted in dumped into the rivers etc. AND THE HELL TRAFFIC OMG. This one time a judge had to halt toll collection to make the traffic move faster.
