### Scaly foot snails
The scaly foot snails use Iron Sulphide from the hydrothermal vents they live around to build their own armour of Iron Sulphide. This is the only species we know of that uses iron this way, as of 2018 it was endangered due to heavy mineral mining around the habitat vents
^^ Apex Predator

## Greatest Racer of All Time
### Introductions
April 7, 1968 a Formula 2 racing driver was killed in Hockenheim, Germany; sadly one of 127 that year. Jim Clark OBE. 
A radio broadcaster asked the people in California to turn up their headlights as a mark of respect for the driver, the freeways lit up. It was as we shall now see Impossible, for Scottish Jim Clark to die in a car crash. 

### Into Formula 1
Coming formerly from a street car racing background, Colin Chapman signed Clark for Lotus and he won 7/10 '63 GPs thereby winning him his first Formula One Grand Prix. 
A modern F1 driver complaints that there are 21 races a few too many a year. In 1965 Jim Clark did 63 races in a single year, F1, British F2, French F2, Tasman Australian Series, Touring Cars, Indy 500.
**Indy 500**: Jim Clark World Champion F1 was asked to take a rookie Driving test before he competed in the Indy 500. On race weekend he qualified on pole and won by over 2 minutes. 

### Inhuman Skill
Jimmy one time after a series of 10 practice laps at spa came back and said there is something off about the rear of the car. At night the whole car had to be stripped down to find one single tiny bearing which had worn off. His cars after race would, by the standards of race degradations, be pristine.
One year at spa his gearbox started to let go. He drove the rest of the race at 260 km/h in the wet holding one hand on the steering and one hand holding the gear lever in place. And he still won. By almost 5 minutes.
In 1965 after winning both F2 and the Tasman series. He went to F1 with his same '63 car with minor changes. This car was now 3 years old. On the opening race of the season against Graham Hill, Jack Brabhum, John Surtees ('64 champion) he won the race by half a minute while suffering from a slipped disc. IS THIS MAN INHUMAN? (*the hint is in the title*).
In '65 Silverstone towards the end of the race his engine started losing oil pressure. With the leak his car was now under danger of detonating under cornering g forces. Hill was right at his tail. Clark turned off the car at each corner, coasted through the corner, turned it back on, did the rest of the lap. And obviously. Won the race. (*I mean what were you expecting*)

### Closing
On 7th April '68 he had a choice between Brand's Hatch and the one chose: F2 Germany. Due to poor weather conditions and that even the car could not get the tires to heat up. Jim told the crew "Don't expect anything from me today. Just tell me the pit board, where I am and how many laps to go". Those were his last words. 
In the crash the car was in one place and the engine and the gearbox were in another place 35 yards away. He had spun off at 270 km/h at a corner on lap 5 due to a tyre deflation. Jim Clark died instantly off a broken neck.

### Grand Slam
A grand slam in F1 is when a driver qualifies on pole, has fastest lap, leads every lap of the race and then wins. Hamilton has 6. Schumacher 5. Senna 4. Jim Clark has 8 Grand Slams to his name. More than any driver ever. 
Fangio says "Jim Clark was the greatest racing driver ever". All metrics of driver comparison in F1 today are done, assuming Clark is the number one, he will never be beaten. Jim Clark was the best of the best. Jim Clark was the benchmark. 


# How Many Continents
## How Many Continents
British curriculum in general covers Standard 7; N&S America, EU, Asia, Australia, Africa and Antarctica. Some European schools however bundle N&S America as 1 continent. In Russia and Japan they bundle Asia & EU as 1 conti. In South America both the above bundles are applied to teach only 5 continents. So who's right?

### Large Continuous land bodies
Since Panama and Suez are man made, AfriEurasia, Antarctica, Australia and the America are the only 4 continents by this definition. AfriEurasia contains 86% of the world's population making it a very obviously useless distinction.

### Tectonic Plates
NA, SA, EUAsia, Antarctica, Africa and Australia. But the Aus plate also contains other Asian countries so what to do? This plate is usually called Australinea/Meganesia/Sahul not to be confused with Australasia which is actually the collective name for Australia and its few close countries. 

### Olympics
5 continents. (THESE ARE NOT MAPPINGS, just to count)
Blue = EU, Black = Africa, Red = N&S A, Yellow = Asia, Green = Oceania (Australia, NZ, Micro, Mela and Polynesian Countries)

### The Europe Problem
Europe while looking merely like an extension of Asia is technically very different due to distinct cultures. Armenia for example which is 95%+ Christian identifies as European despite being physically in Asia. Turkey identifies and both Asian and European which causes the line to be forcefully drawn at the Bosporus. 
This line problem is a big problem for Russia which therefore causes them to draw no line at all since if the European Russians claimed to be very culturally different from the Asian Russians then they can ask for independence into the Russian Federation and Siberia. Allegedly.

### Extra Mess

# Singapore
## Istanbul Channel
Istanbul, once a capital of the Romans, Byzantines and Ottomans, today serves as 50% of Turkey's total trade. Istanbul straddles the Bosporus Strait. The only way for Ukraine, S-W Russia, Bulgaria, Romania and Georgia have of getting from the Black Sea to the Agean Sea and then cross either the Suez or Gibraltar.
Another Strategic importance is that Ships which cross into EU from Suez can enter the Bosporus and then enter Danube and pass through 12 countries along the river before it ends up at Rotterdam. Bosporus therefore has much more traffic than even Suez

### Montreax Convention
Allowed Turkey to put militarized ships in the Bosporus straight, outlawed them from ever charging any taxes on passing and allowed the free passage of all civilian ships in time of peace or war. The treaty says that at any given time no more than 9 warships with 15K tonnes total of weight can be in the strait. So Russia just positioned one there permanently which almost always maxes out the tonnage -_-.
To escape soviet pressure they joined NATO :\). Since guns which are of calibre more than 8 inches are banned through the strait, US sent Missile cruisers since missiles aren't technically guns. DAMN BRUH.

### Istanbul Canal
Since the treaty actually applies to the Bosporus strait only, Turkey plans to build a new strait which they can charge taxes for and also distribute some of the Bosporus traffic effectively making Istanbul an island. This will also allow them to send US Aircraft carriers into the Black Sea via that route. The canal is also a part of their 2023 plan which will also include the new Istanbul Airport which when made will be world's largest airport.

## Singapore is a dictatorship
### PAP
Sgp is rules by the People's Action Party for almost 6 consecutive decades now by the Lee family. They are the default and only feasible choice in the elections. For them a 70% win is a good sign and a 60% win is a difficult question about the party's future. Sgp's elections are unlike other east asian countries free from intimidation and tampering.

When first created PAP immediately disappeared or imprisoned any opposition from parties, people or even student activists.

### Elections
Sgp elections are very free indeed but not the least bit fair where PAP can call an election at their own convenience and are largely PM is unstoppable while gerrymandering. In addition parties cannot start campaigning until after an election is called which usually means less than 9-11 days. Over last 50 years that has been a total of 109 days. Via a series of bills the PAP also granted it self to silence any opposition so they can basically bankrupt anybody anytime and call an election anytime anywhere.

### Pressure
Since no other way exists, in sgp people show their protest by actually not voting for the ruling party. Which tends to generally not look very good. So as a result the PAP basically said that those who vote for them will get priority housing and maintenance etc.


# MAIN STORIES
### Chernobyl Clarifications
The explosion that led to the Chernobyl nuclear accident was chemical, driven by gases and steam generated by the core runaway, not by nuclear reactions. No commercial nuclear reactor contains a high enough concentration of U-235 or plutonium to cause a nuclear explosion.

### CRISPR creates superbug invincible to all viruses
All life on Earth follows this rule: a combination of 64 DNA triplet codes, or “codons,” are translated into 20 amino acid. Why wouldn’t 64 dedicated codons make 64 amino acids? The reason is redundancy. Life evolved so that multiple codons often make the same amino acid. We can use these redundant codons to do programming
A team at the UCambridge recently used CRISPR to replace >18,000 codons with synthetic amino acids. The result is a bacteria that’s virtually resistant to all viral infections—because it lacks the normal protein “door handles” that viruses need to infect the cell [*SingularityHub*](https://singularityhub.com/2021/06/08/scientists-used-crispr-to-engineer-a-new-superbug-thats-invincible-to-all-viruses/)

### Direct Condensation
24 hours around the clock, with no energy input, even under the blazing sun. Specially coated glass pane, reflects sun and also radiates its own heat through away. Thus cools itself down to as much as 15&deg;C below the ambient temperature.
The new method can produce >2x as much water/area/day as the best current passive methods. Under ideal conditions, they could harvest up to 0.53 decilitres of water/m²/h very close to the maximum 0.6. [Ethz](https://ethz.ch/en/news-and-events/eth-news/news/2021/06/harvesting-drinking-water-from-humidity.html)

### Upside Down
Upside-down rainbows exist; they are named circumzenithal arcs and are considered halos. Arcs are caused by the refraction of sunlight through ice crystals, generally in cirrus or cirrosts clouds, rather than from raindrops like regular rainbows.