---
layout: 'layout:post'
---

## The Illusion: *The View from Halfway Down*
Bojack Horseman looks like the typically happiest show in the catalogue with its
- Colorful Animations
- Talking Animals
- Hollywood Glamour

But this happy facade masks a dark reality that happens every time we scratch little more than the surface. The show goes on to show the darker reality behind the magic of Hollywood (Hollywoo) while using that as a deeper metaphor for the meaninglessness of existence itself. This is a principle fundamentally called Existential Nihilism i.e

> If life is truly meaningless, how are we supposed to deal with it?

## Distract Yourself: *Blaise Pascal*
*A key way to cope with the anguish of a meaningless world is to simply distract yourself*

**Princess Carolyn:** (PC) persistently distracts herself with her job and her compulsive need to fix the life of those she cares about. Despite complaining about work dominating her life, she can't actually handle the free time that comes without it. When her agency folds, she finally has time for the relationship she always wanted, but still finds a way to get right back to the Hollywood grindstone
> "IM GONNA BE A MANAGER" ~ PC

**Todd:**, Bojack's best friend and perpetual mooch, is happy so long as he has something to do. The one time we do see Todd without anything to do, he immediately starts to spiral into existential despair before finding something to take his mind off it. Todd may not have much direction or common sense, but he manages to keep himself busy. He composes a space opera, builds his own Disneyland, and starts a number of businesses
> HURRAY. A TASK ~ Todd

**Mr. Peanutbutter** spends his life in a constant state of distraction. Though he may seem like a moron, he's so stupid he doesn't realize how miserable he should be. Mr. Peanutbutter is more self-aware than most. \
> The universe is a cruel, uncaring void. The key to being happy isn't to search for meaning, it's to just keep yourself busy with unimportant nonsense and eventually you'll be dead. ~ Peanutbutter

**Bojack's:** whole life is a series of distractions. The way Bojack spends his days is so trivial that the show often makes a joke of not showing us what he's doing half the time. In fact, in the years since Horse and Around, Bojack has been able to drift through life in a near constant state of distraction.

```yml
Bojack: Heyyyy, 2 days !? I can do all those things
(2 days later)
Bojack: Oh shit I didn't do any of those things
```

In the first episode, Bojack has a mild anxiety attack that sends him to the hospital. The doctor tells him he needs to take it easier. The show asks a question commonly directed at celebrities. They have everything, so how could they not be happy? This question was addressed by 17th century philosopher Blaise Pascal, who was considered by many to be a precursor to the existentialist. For Pascal, when given too much time to think, humans will eventually contemplate their own insignificance, which inevitably bums them out.

> *I have discovered that all the unhappiness of men arises from one single fact, that they cannot stay quietly in their own chamber. I have found that there is one very real reason, namely the natural poverty of our feeble and mortal condition, so miserable that nothing can comfort us when we think of it closely ~ Blaise Pascal*

Pascal takes the why are celebrities not happy question head on just with kings.

### Post confrontation
Although bojack successfully keeps himself distracted for many years, it comes crashing down when he reads Diane's book and is forced to confront his own Self Deception. So what next?

```yml
Pascal: Turn to god
Bojack: God isn't real.
```

So what then?

He turns right back to distractions. But what happens with distractions when the illusion is broken?
- First, Secretariat gives a young Bojack advice that basically amounts to don't think about it.
    > *Bojack, when you get sad, you run straight ahead and you keep running forward no matter what.*
    >
    > *There are people in your life who are going to try to hold you back, slow you down, but you don't let them. Don't you stop running and don't you ever look behind you. There's nothing for you behind you. All that exists is what's ahead. But once he's disqualified from racing and can no longer keep the thoughts at bay, you can be the fastest runner in the world.*
    >
    > *But you can't outrun the truth.*
- The second case is Sarah Lynn. Bojack drags Sarah Lynn on a months-long bender that only ends when she OD's on, well, Bojack. The heroin, not the horse. Looking back on it, that might have been a bit on the nose.

## Radical Freedom: *Jean-Paul Sartre*
If going back to the perpectually distracted state won't work. What Next?
From the beginning, Bojack rejects any and all responsibility. He wants to escape the realities of his own terrible life choices.

> I'm responsible for my own happiness, I can't even be responsible for my own breakfast

**Sidebar**: If existentialism had a catchphrase, it would be, existence precedes essence, and objects' essence for Sartre can be thought of as its purpose. If I make a hammer, I create it with a particular purpose in mind, i.e. hammering. So we would say that the hammer's essence precedes its existence.

For a Christian, a human is like a hammer, a tool created by God with a purpose in mind. But for an existential nihilist, humans, and horsemen, exist just because. Unlike a hammer or a gentle farm's chicken, there's no purpose underlying Bojack's existence, and nothing that he's meant to do. There's nothing stopping Bojack from stealing the D from the Hollywood sign or doing three months worth of drugs, and on the flip side, there's nothing forcing him to do those things either. Bojack has total control over every choice he makes.

This is what Sartre meant by radical freedom, and it's definitely not supposed to be comforting: *That is what I mean when I say that man is condemned to be free, condemned because he did not create himself, yet is nevertheless at liberty, and from the moment that he is thrown into this world, he is responsible for everything he does. Or as Diane and Bojack put it, That's the thing. I don't think I believe in deep down. I kind of think all you are is just the things that you do.*

### There is no deep down
Well that's depressing. There is no good Bojack deep down. There is only the one Bojack, and he is entirely defined by the choices he's made so far. Or as Todd puts it to Bojack at the end of season 3, You are all the things that are wrong with you. While this may not seem too comforting, it does offer Bojack one bit of hope.

This implies there is only one Bojack (you), the one who is defined by his choices so far, but he is not doomed to be the person in that book forever. He has the freedom to change his actions and himself, but it's entirely up to him to do so

## Embrace the Absurd: *Albert Camus*
Both Mr. Peanutbutter and Cuddly Whiskers' path to happiness after or even because of the realization of nihilism. They both go through their own BS to eventually realise, as metallica rightly said, "And nothing else matters
"

For Camus, the universe is irrational and meaningless, and yet humans are desperate to find reason and meaning in it, and he calls this discrepancy the absurd. Once you become aware of the absurd, you only have three choices
- Return to the cycle of daily life and don't think about it
- Do a Mr Secretariat from halfway down (*fin.*)
- or his preferred option rebellion i.e accept the absurd and be happy anyway, because screw the universe for thinking it can control how you feel

### The Myth of Sisyphus
Camus illustrates these ideas in his essay The Myth of Sisyphus, about a man who is doomed to push a rock up a hill each day, only to watch it roll back down again. Sisyphus becomes Camus' absurd hero when he recognizes the absurdity of his task, but decides to be happy in spite of it.

The show directly references the myth of Sisyphus. There's also the recurring symbol of the baboon jogging up the hill outside Bojack's house. Every day, he's running up that same hill. PC even quotes saying her life is like pushing a boulder up a hill and watch it roll down

```
```

At the end of the awakening comes, in time, the consequence, suicide or recovery. Just as Camus describes, Bojack runs out of the stage set and begins to drive into nowhere. Driving has repeatedly served as a way for Bojack to try and escape the absurd. But when he releases the steering wheel, Bojack gives in, submitting himself to the absurd and to suicide.

A group of horses who have embraced running purely for its own sake. Like Sisyphus, they run, carry out the meaningless task, and are happy anyway.  However, when he sees the wild horses, they represent for him the alternative. Embrace the absurd. Carry out your meaningless task and be happy in spite of it.

## Alternative
The show does offer one possible solution to Bojack's struggle for meaning. Family. When you pay attention to all the times Bojack watches horse and around, the scenes all revolve around the in-show family. Even during the first Big Bender, he has a vision of himself as a simple family man.