---
layout: post
type: TWIL
title:  "Glowing, F1 & Covid-19"
cdn: 2021/007.jpg
---

*A man walks past the burning funeral pyres of people who died from COVID-19 during a mass cremation at a crematorium in New Delhi, India, on April 26, 2021 ~ Adnan Abidi / Reuters. The Atlantic*

# PRIME STORIES

## Glowing
Scientist compared hundreds of green glowing jellyfish. They isolated *Aequorin* which produces blue light after a chemical process. The green light came from *Green Fluorescent Proteins* (GFPs). These chemicals absorb light and due to structural reasons emit a different colour after losing some energy.

GFPs trap amino acids in a cylindrical region which constricts movement or rearrangement or reaction. This causes the amino acids to absorb and then re emit the light after minimal adjustments. Scientists put GFPs Genes in EColi and made them grow green. Scientists then just attach the GFP Genes to certain sections of the genome and they can see visibly certain sections of genes being turned on and off because its outcome had GFPs acting on them.

Scientists were able to use GFPs of different colors in a mouse and trace its individual neurons and map it to a rainbow spectrum (which they called brainbow -_-). They won the nobel prize for medicine in 2008. These are now commonplace such as glowing fishes

Fluorescein is a reddish brown fluorescent molecule which due to its structure is very rigid. This then absorbs light and emits a bright yellow green. This is used in many places, such as diabetic patients who have blocked blood vessels in eyes which may cause poor vision or partial blindness. With Fluorescein Angiography. The molecule is injected into blood stream and blue light is shined on the eye. This fluorescence then shows the blood vessel structure of the eye.

Fluorescein + H2O2 = Luminol. This on contact with blood causes H2O2 to react and release an O2 which reacts with the dormant fluorescein and causes it to glow again. Magic. We have a murder. This is specially useful since it does not affect DNA and other organic molecules.

### F1 Telecast
F1 telecast earlier used to carry their full cast and crew all around the world but as a result of Covid 19 they were forced to make an early shift to a different model. Where only the F1 filming crew and the track mix crew are on site, everyone else is in Biggins Hill, London, making and manufacturing the 1080p global feed which individual providers are not allowed to mix or change in any way ensuring that everyone gets the same feed consistently.

The only changes which the individual provider is allowed to make is adding localized commentary. All this transmission from Track to London is handled by Tata Communications. The track mix is a set of cameras around the track managed by the track director, all other feeds like the Pit lane feeds, the moving cat etc are all delivered as individual feeds to London. Once stitched the uniform feed is sent out. All this happens in less than 7 seconds from track to tv :)))))))))).


# MAIN STORIES

### Quinghao
This plant is used to extract out Artemisinin by wringing (in contrast to boiling it which causes the compound to break down and in turn not work). Artemisinin reacts with Hemozoin (molecules from malaria toxin formed as a result of reacting with RBCs) and produces free radicals these free radicals react heavily and tear the cell apart. Artemisinin reacts with RBCs also but the concentration can be controlled and since the reaction with Haemoglobin is slower than Hemozoin it works. The

Tu Youyou founder of this method got the 2015 nobel prize for medicine.

### Ergosphere
Blackholes themselves warp space in such a way that they can move around in a larger circle forming a ring, more popularly called a ringularity. This forms a new region around it called the ergosphere. There is no choice for matter in this region but to follow the rotation.

### Panama Canal
Crossing the America's was a big challenge for business. The suez canal businessman Lesseps tried to build a canal by cutting the mountain, but landslides, storms, disease and the wild caused him to fail. The americans under Roosevelt took army and got Panama independence from Columbia and in turn signed a treaty to build the canal by using a gate system and raising the water instead of breaking the mountain.

### Amazon ka Sahara
Each year Saharan dust (~182M tons) is carried by wind across the atlantic for 3000 miles to the amazon basin. While these are less than 1/10th of the width of human hair, they form massive plumes visible from space as observed by NASA's Calipso Sat. ~27M tons of this dust provides much needed phosphorus to Amazonian Plants

### Wind Turbines
New research has found that the vertical turbine design is far more efficient than traditional turbines in large scale wind farms, and when set in pairs the vertical turbines increase each other’s performance by up to 15%. Vertical axis wind farm turbines can ultimately lower prices of electricity.

### Ant-ics
 Over 200 bird species including the Northern Cardinals, wild turkeys and Baltimore Orioles use a method of pest control called "anting." They take an ant in their beak and wipe their tail feathers in order to deter lice. The ants release formic acid that the birds utilize routinely.

### Artificial Corals!
Researchers have successfully grown cells from the stony coral, Acropora tenuis, in petri dishes. The cell lines were created by separating out of cells from coral larvae, which then developed into 8 distinct cell types. 7/8 cell types were stable and could grow indefinitely, remaining viable even after freezing. Some of the cell types represented endoderm-like cells, and could therefore shed light on how coral interacts with photosynthesizing algae and how bleaching occurs. The cell lines could be used in many avenues of coral cell research, including coral development, coral farming and the impact of climate change and pollution

### Hubble Error
Hubble mirror originally had a 2000nm error causing images to be blurry and focus in different places. The Perkin Elmer built mirror also had a backup built by Kodak, both mirrors with a tolerance of 10nm. When the mirror was being checked in the null corrector it was placed such that it perfectly cancelled out the actual error. They created a small correcting mirror system called costar which fit into the modualar instruments bay. In 2009 Costar was removed since now the new advanced instruments had each their own correctors.

### Tupolev 144
The first commercial supersonic plane, even before the concorde. It also had extra wings in the front, like moustaches which allowed it to have slightly more lift at lower speeds. The Tu144 also had a Mach 2.1 top speed (2.04 Concorde), but it needed after burners the whole flight and therefore made too much noise. It was the first commercial plane to have pilot ejection seats. It had a capacity of 140 (concorde 100) but was limited booking to 80 only since the initial flights were unstable.

Play would decompress cabin, overheat engines etc mid flight and had to return. Concorde was 30x Standard ticket price whereas Tu144 was just 1.5x. During the simultaneous demonstration of Concorde and Tu144, the Tu144 crashed (on the second take off ) and killed all 6 crew. After one more crash after that the passenger programme on Tu 144 was suspended. It was later used as a Buran training program for cosmonauts. The 747 & A380 killed the efficiency of the Concorde.

### Enclaves
Till 2015 India and Bangladesh had the world's only 3rd Order Enclave and multiple 2nd Order Enclaves. When BJP came to power in 2014, modiji used diplomacy and NOT WAR (America pay attention) to solve these conflicts as a result of which ~120 Indian Enclaves in Bangladesh and ~70 Bangladeshi Enclaves in India were exchanged and the messy border situation was resolved barring on which now has a 200m land leased to bangladesh to allow travel between the Enclave and the mainland so it is also not any more an Enclave.

The problem with a 3rd Order Enclave is that for people who need to cross the 2nd order enclave they need a visa. And to get a visa they need an embassy, which is in the main land, so they are stuck permanently.

### Blood Moon
Blood moon eclipses are caused because when light bends around earth it splits into the constituent colors and red is the inner most all around. The whole red-orange ring then falls on the moon making it red. Therefore blood moon.

### Oldest Terrestrial
The oldest terrestrial animal is a Tortoise by the name of Johnathan at 188 years old as of 2021. His exact birthday is unknown therefore the hatching has been arbitrarily assigned a date.

### Change Rules in Japan
The oldest single line monarchy of Japan has now a dwindling pool of successors. Therefore the country has a more than 2/3rd majority such that they will are willing to change the rule to even female Emperors. [*JapanTimes*](https://www.japantimes.co.jp/news/2021/05/01/national/females-imperial-family-survey/)

### Circular Light for Cancer
Scientists have demonstrated a novel cancer diagnosis technique by the scattering of circularly polarized light. This method can be implemented using an endoscope equipped with spin-LEDs—devices that emit circularly polarized light. The patterns in depolarisation of light when analysed against healthy and unhealthy cells can lead to early diagnosis [TokyoTech](https://www.titech.ac.jp/english/news/2021/049670.html)


# QUICKBITS
> The US knew that the German Nuke programme had been scrapped in '42. But threatened any scientists who were to speak out against the manhattan proj.

> Of all nations that signed the 2017 Nuclear Treaty, NK till date has the only one to openly declare that they are willing to discuss global nuclear ban😂😂😂😂😂. America is 100% a Joke.

> Due to the MIME email specification having to fit the older definition of ASCII emails it was limited to using a re-encoding space less than ASCII (7 bits). So 6 bits was chosen therefore base64 `[A-Z][a-z][0-9]+/`

> Coffee prices are dependent on price of local currency (largely USD) and Brazil's currency since it is largely in-elastic

> Large distance video transmission for organizations is not done by HDMI but instead Ethernet with a Twisted pair and a converter on either side due to cost effectiveness. Ethernet Cost is about half of HDMI per foot