### Tsunamis in Planets
- It is theorized that Mars had an ocean but does not show a shoreline because a mega-tsunami wiped out this shoreline.
- Venus has clouds which move much much faster than the planet. This is probably because of surface waves which push air up.
- Titan around saturn has a tilted orbit compared to rings and hence generates a slight lift wave in the rings which precesses around with the moon.

### Big Buildings
While very tall most buildings don't have a lot of usable ground area. Ex burj khalifa does not fall even in the top 10 skyscrapers by ground area (main building only measured). The largest being China's new finance center (as of Current date).

### Elephants
Elephants are social (herd) animals with the most genes devoted to smell of any animila. They can smell water from KMs away. They use their trunks as a means of not just drinking and delicate manoeuvres but also for communication.

### Whale Hunting
It has been noticed that over years whales have developed defences against whale hunting as time for each hunt increases and whale strike rate fell by 58%. [*Royal Society*](https://royalsocietypublishing.org/doi/full/10.1098/rsbl.2021.0030?af=R&)

### Monoamines
Depression is cause by a lack of monoamines in the brain. Most importantly Serotonin. This was first cured reliably by Fluoxetine (or Prozac in '88) it was a first of kind Selective Serotonin Reuptake Inhibitor (SSRI).

### Market Makers
Payment for order flow is illegal in UK and everything goes to exchange. Market makers in both cases payment for order flows (0 commission) and otherwise collect the bid ask spread. SEC USA allows their existence as long as they declare who they route to. But Gamestop volatility is creating a problem here & is therefore under review.

# QUICKBITS
> Octopuses can edit their own Genes

> Botanical Forensics with Xyloscope Machine uses ML to classify wood based on species with detailed high res images.

> One dose of Psilocybin can take a human from 50% to 85% open-ness.

> Wikipedia to charge companies to use its database.

> Kevlar hardens on cooling.

> In 2008 olympics Beijing used Rockets & chemicals to prevent any rains during the opening ceremony.

### Marketing
Medical marketing is not always negative. It can have positive effects. The marketing of Prozac resulted in a decrease in stigmatization of depression and higher acceptance in society.


# ANALYSIS

### Calculating Pi
Till before Newton we used sandwich of inscribed and circumscribed larger and larger polynomials. Newton used binomial theorem with negative and fractional numbers and extended the Pascals triangle.

Newton used binomial theorem to create
$$\int_0^1 1- x^2 \,dx$$ = &#x222B; (Infinite series)
This was then converged better with
$$\int_0^{1/2} 1- x^2 \,dx$$ = &#x222B; (rapid convergence Infinite series) with x at $$1/2 = \pi/12 + \sqrt{3}/8$$. Rearrange and solve.

### Mining
Titanium is one of the most abundant materials in the earths crust. But it is not concentrated enough to be mined profitably