---
layout: post
type: TWIL
title:  "Alcohol, Ukraine-Russia & Magnetic Reconnection"
cdn: 2021/005.jpg
---

*Volodymyr, a service member of the Ukrainian armed forces, plays with puppies at fighting positions on the line of separation from pro-Russian rebels in Ukraine's Donetsk region on April 10, 2021. The two unnamed puppies living on frontline positions will be taken home and named by soldiers departing on troop rotation ~ Oleksandr Klymenko / Reuters. The Atlantic*


# MAIN STORIES

### Dark Energy
Dark energy may not exist. It may just be an unknown force exerted by the existing dark matter which behaves like magnetic repulsion. [*AstrophysicalJournal*](https://iopscience.iop.org/article/10.3847/1538-4357/abe5a2)

### Magnetic Reconnection
When two magnetic lines diverging come together and  stream of charge particles flows to the source. This if in planets can cause Aurora (ex Jupiter maybe). [*NASA*](https://www.nasa.gov/content/goddard/science-of-magnetic-reconnection)

### Self recognition
The only known species which can recognize themselves in a mirror are elephants, humans, great apes, magpies and dolphins.

### Alcohols
Red wines contain polyphenols, when consumed these also increase the blood flow through the arteries and therefore reduce the blood pressure. White wines contain lower polyphenols than red wines. In general the darker the wine, the more polyphenols it contains.
Alcohol makes you eat more. Alcohol concentration is dependent on the amount of water in your body.

### Direwolves
Direwolves are real, they are just not wolves. We have more than 5000 fossils of direwolves dating back to the ICE ages.

### Cruise Tunnel
Norway is building the largest tunnel of ~35x25x400 m<sup>3</sup> which will allow massive cruise ships to pass through it. This will allow all the ships passing through that region to bypass the choppy open water.

### Elon
Elon musk had only one computer during paypal. So the website used to run in the day and he used to code by night. To him not doing what satisfies him is far worse than financial instability or other such.

### Drinking Heavy Water
Deuterium Oxygen bonds are slightly stronger than Hydrogen Oxygen bonds. When the body starts consuming D2O and changes the existing Deuterium to Hydrogen then all processes may slow down due to difficulty in bond breaking. Although it is said that to kill a human about 50% of the body H would have to be replaced. Which is impractical largely

### WBC are smart AF
When your immune system fights an infection, it cranks up the mutation rate during antibody production by a factor of 1,000,000, and then has them compete with each other. This natural selection process creates highly specific antibodies for the virus.[*ScienceDirect*](https://www.sciencedirect.com/topics/immunology-and-microbiology/somatic-hypermutation)

### Haitian Revolution
Napoleon sent 50K or something to Haiti. But since most of the slaves there were of African origin they weren't affected by Yellow Fever which devastated troops. Therefore the Haitian revolution succeeded and Napoleon stopped trying to expand LR&C. Haiti became the first independent nation in Latin America. This also sent the French back and doubled the size of america

# QUICKBITS

> Ravish Kumar has won the Magsaysay Award in 2019.

> India and China are the only countries to sign no first nuclear fire. i.e will use nukes only when attacked