# PRIME STORIES
## Morpheus
is a secure CPU that computer into a puzzle that happens to compute. How do you make it mind bogglingly difficult to understand for an attacker, but not affect the normal programmer? This is where the notion of undefined semantics comes in.

> Commentary: Think about driving a car: The defined semantics of your car are that it has a steering wheel; it has a left/right blinker; it may have a stick shift depending on the kind of car; it has as an on-off button. Once you know those basic features, you can drive your car. The undefined semantics are: Is it four cylinders or six cylinders? Does it run on diesel or electric? Does it have ABS braking or non-ABS braking? Attackers need to know all that underlying stuff, because they need to use that knowledge to step around the defenses. It is the telltale sign of an attack that it is dipping into the implementation details of a system.

Ex. return stack, popular for buffer overflow. There’s only one part of the program that writes and reads from the return address, the beginning & end of a function. But when you see a program attacking the return address to do code injection, for example, you’ll see writes from many different places in the program. So, these sort of unexpected, undefined accesses, normal programs never do. That’s a tell-tale sign that there is an attack going on. Now, some systems might try to detect that. And when they detect that, then they can kill the program. But that’s problematic, too, because things like operating systems and device drivers do some of this stuff, too.

So instead make the underlying implementation of the machine—the undefined semantics—change every few 100ms (goal is 10ms). (504 bits of knobs => \|Keyspace\| = 2^504). We take pointers—references to locations in memory—and we encrypt them (with Simon Cipher). That puts 128 bits of randomness in our pointers.

### What it stops
This stops Spectre and Meltdown very easily. This actually stops any attack that relies on pointers and code (say remote code execution/RCE). It only stops low-level attacks. It doesn’t stop things like SQL injection and other high level stuff.[IEEE](https://spectrum.ieee.org/tech-talk/semiconductors/processors/morpheus-turns-a-cpu-into-a-rubiks-cube-to-defeat-hackers)

## Trees
### Trees have survived all 4 extinction events
Trees join their roots and often share resources. Scientists joined 2 trees roots with mycelium networks and enclosed one tree in a C14 room. They noticed that the photographic film around the roots shows transfer of material from the radioactive tree to the non radioactive one. And it was shown that the less sunlight the covered tree got the more material the uncovered tree sent it.
It was also shown that this is indeed the mycelium network and not the soil by putting another tree with incompatible mycelium in the same soil and showed that they don't have any activity.
The trees also somehow share information. When 3 tomato trees were connected and one was infested with caterpillars, the other 2 trees connected started secreting enzymes which prevent against the pest and were effective as the caterpillars did not grow as large and were much less effective.

### Competition vs Cooperation
It was well known till now that trees compete for resources, then why this cooperation. The prevailing hypothesis is that while competition makes better trees, it may open up gaps in the canopy where the sunlight will then reach the floor and try out the moist and regulated soil. Poorer cover will also allow winds to penetrate the canopy and less tress to stabilize them means trees can get uprooted more easily.


# MAIN STORIES
### Ant Civilisations
Ants are the only other creatures other than humans known to do farming. They have 2 stomachs, on for food they eat & one for someone else. Ants function like individuals and also the whole colony as one organization. Ants are more similar to humans in terms of war, two colonies can go over war for access to resources, some of these tactics are extremely complex involving even chemical weapons.

Ant wars even have paramedic ants which in case of injury will pull an ant out of the battlefield, just like Navy SEALs no man left behind.

### Billie Jean King
Billie Jean was part of the Original 9 players who formed the Virginia Slims Series, created because the women wanted to end inequality of pay between male and female victors. These nine women created their own tournaments and played wherever they could. Eventually this turned into the Women’s Tennis Association (WTA).

### World's Oldest Hotel
Nishiyama Onsen Keiunkan in Yamanashi, Japan is World's Oldest Hotel and has Been operating since 705 A.D. The hotel has 37 rooms, a kaiseki restaurant, and a moon-viewing platform. There used to be no Wi-Fi on the site, however, as of 2019, all rooms and facilities of the hotel have free and password free Wi-Fi.

### BOTOXic
Most of the world's Botox is manufactured in Ireland. A couple of pounds/kilos of the raw botulinum neurotoxin used to make it is enough to kill everyone in the world, multiple times over.

### Embryo Limits
Human Embryos grown in labs have a 14 day (called Blastocyst) limit since beyond this 14 days, they develop something called a 'Primitive Streak', this is a point where the basic building blocks start differentiating themselves and this is also the point where becoming twins is no longer possible and therefore individuality is assigned. This 14 day limit is now in >12 countries a Law

### Anthocyanin
Is an anti bacterial and a kind of sunscreen, it also is what makes plants blue/purple-red in most cases. More acidic environments causes it to turn more blue and more basic more red (via purple). In general blue anthocyanin are much rarer and relatively less stable than red anthos, which is also why red ones are much more common.
We put more acidic stuff into soil to make hydrangeas more blue (the other way round) simply because anthocyanin also changes colours based on the metals around it. So the acidic material actually contains metal ions which causes anthocyanin to accumulate around it and reflect blue. Ex. When blueberries are put in the pan they are blue then when they are heated up and cooked they become redder (purple) then when baking soda is added they suddenly become very blue very suddenly.

### Superluminal Space Illusion (Light Echo)
<fr-embeder from="youtube" src="IsEDigUHsOQ"></fr-embeder>

### Starbucks is a bank
Starbucks is the largest used mobile rewards app, with a total of $1B in accounts combined. This is more than 85% of US banks which hold <$1B in assets. About 10% of this money will be lost/never used. They have all the ingredients to create their own currency. This is an Unregulated Bank not a coffee company.

# QUICKBITS
> The band Bring Me the Horizon is named after the final line from the first Pirates of the Caribbean film, "Now, bring me that horizon".

> Isopropyl alcohol was discovered as a by-product of Exxon Mobil chemists studying petroleum in 1920