# PRIME STORIES
## AT&T
Bell created the phone and got several people including JP Morgan to finance him. They created The Bell & The New England telephone companies which Bell sold his share and were later merged into the National Bell Telephone Co. Bell created a licencing system and also limited them by region such that no two operators can link up with other across regions. This way bell company was the only one who could build long distance lines which it gained a monopoly over. This way they created a subsidiary called American Telephone & Telegraph Company. AT&T.

The expiry of the Telephone patent caused a lot fo small competition intra city companies to pop up. But due to no significant competition, ATnT had poor investment in quality. JPM took control of the company and invested heavily in RnD to make the company better thus also creating ATnT Bell Labs, now Nokia. Bell Labs has had 8 Nobel Prizes and countless other invention over last 100 years. They played big roles in the war, space race and NASA events. Due to poor business practices they were forced to be limited only to the telephone business and later also allow other companies to connect to their lines as directed by the FCC.

This led to the creation of the Answering Machine, The Fax Machine and also the Modem. Due to AT&T being so large still. In 1982 United States v Bell Systems. AT&T was broken into 7 new companies. Of the 7 new baby bells, Bell Atlantic and NYNEX merged to create Verizon. SBC then bought the other 4 including the new weaker AT&T itself. The current at&t we see today is largely the work of SBC. They made large acquisitions and are therefore now just behind Verizon, they are focusing on wireless. In 2015 they bought DirectTV & therefore ESPN, HBO, Bloomberg, Fox News, BBC & NBC. They then brought TimeWarner in 2018 and are now the second largest broadband provider behind Comcast. This way they now also own CNN, DC Comics, Cartoon Network, Warner Brothers etc.

# MAIN STORIES
### Butter Flying
Butterfly wings have a dual purpose motion. Their wings are flexible and bendy, in the downward motion they generate lift, in the upward motion they clap and cup together to form a small pocket of air which is then used to propel them forward. This insanely efficient method of flying is being looked at for scientific applications

### Electrons Runaway
The Townsend avalanche is a gas ionization process where free electrons are accelerated by an electric field, collide with gas molecules, and consequently free secondary electrons. The result is an avalanche multiplication that permits electrical conduction through the gas

### Japan Health vs American Health
In America there is 15x Fast Food restaurants PER PERSON. America has about 30% population which is medically obese as opposed to 3.5% in Japan. AMericans purchase an average of 170L soda/person (Rank 1) as opposed to Japan at 32 (Rank 56). In japan it is usually harder to purchase massive quantities of soda, it is also customary to give free tea with the meal. An American Medium soda is larger than a Japanese Large for McD.

Japan has the highest vending machines per capita on the planet but still they have many very healthy options. In an american machine in most cases the sugarless drink is only water. In Japan there is a balance of sugarless and sugar drinks.

### Life detection
In fireflies the mechanism for light is when they produce ATP, they convert in their tail a molecule Luciferase to Luciferin, this molecule has 1 e- more than needed. When this e- is lost it emits light. This is the same method we use to detect for life, when we mix this chemical in soil, it glows.

### Printing Bones
Most bones can self heal, unless the damage is severe. The current solution for such cases is grafting. We have tried multiple materials but most have some or the other issue. Scientists (UNSW Australia) are now 3D printing bones, with Ceramic Omnidirectional Bioprinting. The ink is made of Calcium Phosphate (actual bone material), when this ink is put into a liquid suspension in the desired shape, the chemical crystallizes into nanostructure, similar to how actual bones are made (Ossification). Even after a few weeks more than 95% cells are surviving from their research.

### Heavy Elements
Two nuclear reaction processes are proposed to explain the formation of the heavy elements: the slow neutron capture process (s-process) or the rapid neutron capture process (r-process).
While the s-process is understood to occur in many stars, there is uncertainty about where the r-process, which produces gold and other elements, occurs.

### Petrichor
The smell of rain also called Petrichor is created due to a chemical called Geosmin. It is produced by organisms as a way of signalling the existence of food. Incidentally it also it is also what gives beetroot its earthy taste

### Olfactory white
Is a smell composed of many equally strong but diverse smells, perhaps over 30. Mixtures of many different smells across the perceptual range all tend to smell very similar to humans, despite different components making them up. The concept is similar to all different spectral colours combining to form white. Olfactory white is neither pleasant or malodorous

# QUICKBITS
> Bitcoin works by solving math problems with proof. The problem is very simple. Fin SHA256 hashes with a certain 70ish number of 0s in the beginning of the hash.

> Lufthansa has decided to cover their planes with sharks’ skin texture. They say that will reduce aerodynamic drag by 1% and therefore cause 3700 t of fuel savings per year.

# ANALYSIS
### The Road not Taken - Robert Frost

> Two roads diverged in a yellow wood, \
> And sorry I could not travel both \
> And be one travelers, long I stood \
> And looked down one as far as I could \
> To where it bent in the undergrowth;
>
> Then took the other, as just as fair, \
> And having perhaps the better claim, \
> Because it was grassy and wanted wear; \
> Though as for that the passing there \
> Had worn them really about the same,
>
> And both that morning equally lay \
> In leaves no step had trodden black. \
> Oh, I kept the first for another day! \
> Yet knowing how way leads on to way, \
> I doubted if I should ever come back.
>
> I shall be telling this with a sigh \
> Somewhere ages and ages hence: \
> Two roads diverged in a wood, and I— \
> I took the one less travelled by, \
> And that has made all the difference.

<em>other, as just as fair</em> & <em>Had worn them really about the same</em>. This has an implication that both roads looked identical. He first says they are worn different, but then he says they are worn the same. The speaker himself here doesn't know how differently the roads are worn. This means our speaker is indecisive and impulsive, he had no reason to pick one path over another. This is further corroborated by the fact that when he picked one path, he kept thinking about the other path that he didn't take.

So <em>I shall be telling this with a sigh</em>, the speaker has clearly made up the fact that he took the road less travelled based on some internal self justification or some information not in the poem. Since based on the data given, since both roads are equally worn, the road less travelled doesn't exist. This is a bit because our brains have a tendency to think we are rational so we fill in logic to convince ourself. This poem is not about <i>Choosing your own road</i>, instead it is about <i> Self-Rationalization</i>. We can't choose between two things that are equal (<em>both...*...equally lay</em>), so the speaker came up with a reason to make sense of his choice. There is no reason. He just made one up.
