---
layout: post
type: TWIL
title:  "Olympics, Moons & Bengal Politics"
cdn: 2021/008.jpg
---

*The Olympic flame is passed from torch to torch on traditional boats during the Tokyo 2020 Olympics torch relay off Zamami in Japan's southernmost island prefecture of Okinawa, on May 2, 2021 ~ Kyodo / Reuters. The Atlantic*

# PRIME STORIES

## Moons
**Pluto** is not actually a single system. Pluto with its moon Charon (about half its diameter) is a Double Dwarf planet system. They orbit a single center epicenter in an ellipse.

**Neptune** has a moon Triton which is not only the largest moon in the solar system but also the only moon to orbit the host planet in the opposite direction as all other moons. Triton although is moving closer to Neptune, after a while it will cross the Roche limit and become a ring.

**Jupiter**'s moon Callisto is the farthest of the 4 large moons. Almost as old as the solar system, it is also considered Geologically dead. Callisto is the most heavily cratered object in the solar system.

**Mar**'s moon Phobos is getting closer to Mars too by 1.8m every 100 years. In about 50 million years they will colide.

**Earth**'s moon has an interesting end, while it is drifting away due to tidal bulge, in about 4.5B years when the sun becomes a red giant, its atmospheric resistance will cause the moon to start coming closer to Earth and as it reaches the Roche limit it will become a ring.

## Bengal Politics
### History
Post independence, even after independence, zamindars owned more than 93% of the total 1 cr worth land (as per Revenue Ministry of Bengal). 25th March ’67, with the killing of a bataidar by a zamindar marked the start of a new movement where farmers came together to fight, This started in the city. Of Naxalbari. This was lead by Charu Mazumdar.

This caused a split such that INC was now the party of the upper class/zamindars, CPIM was the party of the middle class and CPIML was of the SC/ST who had no land. Even after Charu’s death political killings became much more common now that Bombs and all were everywhere. This movement spread across Calcutta like a wild fire in places like DumDum, Tollygunj, Jadavpur etc.

People in these protests were later killed by the police in fake encounters. By 71 elections every party had their own goons, in ’71 INC used their goon power and won the state elections. The left movement was still very popular despite this, therefore giving them the Govt in ’77. Once in power they did 2 things
- Operation Borga: Taking the land back from the zamindars and redistribution of it amongst those farmers with no land.
- They also developed Panchayti Raj Institutions. With the influx of money, Panchayti elections (then 67% influence) became much much more important for SC/ST support

While this may have reached the politics. It changed Bengal politics for ever. CPIM shut down all form of democracy, they got rid off all newspapers which were against them. CPIM created a party society system where the individual identity in alignment with a political party had far more significance than the cast, gender or any other form. This system virtually removed any difference between the party and the society.

This probably came about due to the fact that most issues in any place were solved by zamindars. But due to Borga they no longer had any power, this hole was filled by CPIM workers which caused them to become a part of the society. The party just could not solve rural issues and stay in power they also had to do something for the public, as a consequence of which there was release multiple schemes. Schemes that were powered by the Govt’s money but the party claimed it as their own. Over time the Govt efficiency and also the schemes money started running thin so the schemes started differentially benefiting people. Those which gained became party supporters, those which didn’t became opposition.

This created strict party line divides. It was a blood bath. An example of this is Marichappi Massacre where Dalit refugees fleeing from East Pakistan were coming to Bengal. The CPIM Govt killed these people or starved them to death, simply because those people refused to stay where CPIM wanted them to stay or did not want any political alliance.

### Enter TMC
TMC now started taking the poor man’s side which long ago CPIM was. This caused multiple protests notably the Nandigram protest. This caused Didi to become very popular in Bengal, and won TMC the ’11 election. The political unrest in bengal was never about caste and religion, these issues were largely never touched.

As per research, when BJP entered politics in 2013, this political view started skewing and bengal started having a tenfold increase in religious riots. It is not relevant if TMC is playing any of the religious appeasement that they are accused of, what matters is the image. BJP is playing smartly to this image and increasing polarization as seen in the ’19 and ’21 riots.

### The big picture
The violence is usually occurring when a political party loses their grip and uses violence to keep that. To bengal politics and violence are just two sides of one coin. The coin never changes, just the hands. Zamindars, CPIM, TMC, BJP etc etc.

# MAIN STORIES

### Floral Bulbs
Netherlands was obsessed with Tulip bulbs. The Dutch East India Company at one time also traded bulbs like it was gold. They now have a billion dollar floral and a 100s million dollar bulb industry. The have a garden called Keukenhof which plants millions of tulips on display as income and exhibition for 8 weeks of the year.

They plant these tulips in layers with the latest bloomers (May) are planted deepest then the earlier and the earliest are planet at the top (March) since they have only a 1.5 weeks span. This is called the lasagne method. Tulips grown from bulbs as opposed to seeds anywhere in the world, pretty much originate from Netherlands.

### Longest Living life
July 2020, marine biologists studying the seafloor in the South Pacific Gyre ("the deadest spot in the ocean") discovered aerobic microorganisms in "quasi-suspended animation." At 101.5 million years old, they are the longest-living life forms ever found [*NYT*](https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/28/science/microbes-100-million-years-old.html).

### TDEs
When one star becomes too close to its blackhole it rips apart and starts swirling as the BH eats it up. This then creates two Jets from both sides of the BH. It is possible that these jets are the same extremely high energy particles (at 99.999..5%) speed of light that we observe [*Quanta*](https://www.quantamagazine.org/high-energy-cosmic-ray-sources-mapped-out-for-the-first-time-20210427/).

These speeds probably arise when in a Turbulent magnetic field on the shock front the particle starts going back and forth and rapidly gaining energy.

### Using diamond to produce reliable entangled qubits
When excited by the rapid energy deposition of a passing ion, nitrogen-vacancy centers can form in the diamond lattice. The electron and nuclear spins of nitrogen-vacancy centers and the adjacent carbon atoms can all function as solid-state qubits, and the crystal lattice can help protect their coherence and mutual entanglement [*Berkley*](https://newscenter.lbl.gov/2021/04/27/ion-beams-mean-a-quantum-leap/).

### Solar Panel
Solar panels currently with perovskite structures have poor efficiency (<30%) because it is very easy to break off the hydrogen in the structures' organic molecules. These H when broken off create a gap which is then filled by flow of electricity thus taking away from charging the battery or powering a motor [*ScienceAlert*](https://www.sciencealert.com/scientists-uncover-a-major-flaw-that-s-been-holding-back-next-gen-solar-cells).

### EHL Friction
There is a recently discovered new type of friction called EHL friction which is a type of friction between two surfaces with a thin layer of fluid between them. Such as fingertips with oil between them. It seems microstructures (such as ridges in fingertips) are necessary for EHL friction to act. [NCStateUni](https://news.ncsu.edu/2021/04/law-physics-friction-touch-fluid-robots/)

### Homeostasis
Maintaining homeostasis is in the eyes of evolution probably the most expensive task. We need to eat more and more to do it, and to eat more we need more energy and so on. Mammals are warm blooded simply because moving muscles faster and therefore run faster. Of all cold blooded probably the only ones who runs significantly fast is Jesus Christ Lizard

### Ghost Drivers
Highway hypnosis, also known as white line fever, is an altered mental state in which a person can drive a car, truck, or other automobile great distances, responding to external events in the expected, safe, and correct manner with no recollection of having consciously done so.[1] In this state, the driver's conscious mind is apparently fully focused elsewhere, while seemingly still processing the information needed to drive safely. Highway hypnosis is a manifestation of the common process of automaticity.
 
### Corals
Corals are heavily dependent on the Algae partners on them, these algae absorb light and create stuff which they then pass on to the corals. These corals use these algae also as a natural sunblock, but with the increase in global temperatures the algae are no longer able to protect the corals from the heat. This causes the corals to whiten in a process titled Coral bleaching. 

Corals have now started to make their own colors, they absorb sunlight and emit them in different wavelengths thereby creating flamboyant colors. This protects the corals from bleaching

# QUICKBITS
> Diamond lattices very commonly have nitrogen in them randomly

> The scientific definition of a desert is that is has to receive less than 250mm of rain a year

> Pandora the world’s biggest jeweller is now saying they will sell only lab made diamonds.