---
layout: post
type: TWIL
title:  "Philip, Perseverance & Great Conveyer"
cdn: 2021/006.jpg
---

*A member of the military stands on the grounds of Windsor Castle on the day of the funeral of Britain's Prince Philip, husband of Queen Elizabeth, who died at the age of 99, in Windsor, England, on April 17, 2021. ~ Hannah Mckay / Reuters. The Atlantic*

# PRIME STORIES

## Ocean Currents
All the ocean currents of the world are tied together in one single belt called The Ocean Conveyor. We measure ocean currents in sverdrups. 1 sverdrup = 1 million m<sup>3</sup>/s. All the world's rivers combined have a flow of 1 sverdrup. The Conveyor has a stream of 10 sverdrups. Surface currents are dependent on
- Features
    - Tides
    - Rotation of Earth
    - Shape of land
- Water
    - Temperature
    - Depth
    - Salinity

**The Thermohaline Circulation**: At higher latitudes cold water gets saltier and evaporates due to wind. Water also freezes into ice further leaving more salt in water. This water becomes denser and falls deeper. Water from the equator heats up due to the sun and becomes saltier and is carried upwards by winds like the gulf stream. This wind throws the water from the americas to Europe heating it in the process. This heat is then dumped into Europe and water cools down and the cycle starts again.

This cycle is why despite being at same latitudes London (5&deg;) and the Canada (-11&deg;) have wildly different temperatures. The aforementioned section of the Conveyor is called AMOC (*Atlantic Meridional Overturing Circulation*).

**Global Warming**: If greenland's ice were to melt and dump much fresh water into AMOC. It would slow down the sinking of salty water and by consequence the AMOC and by consequence the whole conveyor.

## On Perseverance
- **Mastcam-Z**: Panoramic + Stereoscopic vision with Zoom
- **MEDA**: Mars Environmental Dynamic Analyser, for weather conditions and wind speeds & direction
- **MOXIE**: Mars OXygen In-situ resource utilisation Experiment, CO2 -> Mixed Ionic Electrolyte -> O2 + C. This is a solid oxide eletrolysis process
- **PIXL**: Planetar Instrument for Xray Lithochemistry, X-Ray spectrometer for up to size of grain of salt
- **RIMFAX**: Radar Imager for Mars' subsurface experiment, Ground penetrating Radar
- **SHERLOC**: Scanning Habitable Environments with Raman & Luminescence for Organics & Chemicals, basically what it sounds like
- **SUPERCAM**: Finds chemical composition of targets to size of pencil point from 20 feet away
- **Ingenuity**


# MAIN STORIES

### Steve Was
Steve Wozniak left Apple and started a Remote Control company as he believed it was the future. It didn't do very well due to being to complicated.

### Swimming Mammals
Moose can swim in water in search of salty plants since that salt is an essential part of them being able to make their antlers.
Kharai camel from India are the only breed of camel that can swim

### Twistron Harvesters
A C-nanotube string into a tangled weave of carbon and submerging it into an electrolyte gel. When covered in the gel and pulled, the C-nanotubes squeeze together and generate a small current—enough to momentarily light up a LED [*ScienceMag*](https://science.sciencemag.org/content/357/6353/773?utm_source=youtube&utm_medium=digital&utm_campaign=vid-nanoyarnpaper-14846)

### Muons
Muons have their own charge. When put in a  particle acc, they start to wobble. The measure of this wobble i.e the anomalous magnetic moment of the particle is what we measure in the muon g-2 expt. [Youtube](https://youtu.be/mWSYPFWepew)

### Cuckoos
Cuckoos can lay eggs in a different species bird’s nest. The egg will match the color of the other existing eggs in the nest. The explanation is the color information is carried by the Y chromosome in the female birds. In birds the XY system is reverse from mammals.

Robin Cuckoos entered the arms race to mimic robins very recently (Therefore having poor copy quality) and robins have also started discriminating very recently. Meadow Pippet Cuckoos on the other hand have been at it since much longer so their copy quality is perfect.

### Ocean Floor
All plankton dead bodies and other micro waste slowly falls down to ocean floor as marine snow. This snow is food for multiple different organisms and while at the bottom enriches the soil as a part of a massive carbon cycle.

In denser parts of this happening this creates very very large deposits of limestone hundreds of meters thick. This is the largest carbon storage on the planet.

### Scaly foot snails
The scaly foot snails use Iron Sulphide from the hydrothermal vents they live around to build their own armour of Iron Sulphide. This is the only species we know of that uses iron this way, as of 2018 it was endangered due to heavy mineral mining around the habitat vents

### Unicorn
Astronomers have discovered a black hole that may seem to be both the smallest black hole ever detected, and the closest one to Earth found so far. *The Unicorn*, the black hole is located right next to a red giant star *V723 Mon* in Monoceros constellation. <1,500 light-years from Earth, Unicorn ~ 3.3M<sub>sun</sub>. [*NewsAtlas*](https://newatlas.com/space/unicorn-smallest-closest-black-hole/)

# QUICKBITS
> DJT once tried to rebuild the twin WTCs. The project never got off ground in favour of the freedom tower