---
layout: 'layout:post'
---

This is how a small rock from Joachimsthal became both the most feared and the most revered rock on the planet in less than 40 years. The rock with the ability to level whole countries. This is the making of the Atomic Bomb.

## The city of Joachimsthal
A small city in Czech Republic where silver is mined. In the mines, evertime the miners encountered black seams in the rocks, they called it 'Hard-Luck Rock' or 'Pitch Blende'. This rock when under black light, glows. The rock forged by the death of stars, after the then first ever scientifically discovered planet Uranus, was named Uranium.

The silver was sent to be made into coins called Joachimsthalers, currency which gave origin to the name Dollar. The uranium although was thrown away. The only use back then of Uranium was to make pale yellow glass, which would glow under sunlight.

## The Inkling of Radiation
Henri Becquerel in 1896 took an ordinary glass photographic plate, wrapped it in black paper, put it in the sunlight and after a day developed it. The glass develops a small black fog in the middle as if it were directly exposed to sunlight. Henri hypothesizes

> The Uranium absorbs the sunlight, concentates it and re-emits it back on to the plate thus creating the 'image' on the plate.

Another day when the day was overcast. Henri had decided to repeat the experiment, but due to rain had to leave it in the drawer in the dark. The next day for some reason which no one can explain he decides to develop the film anyway. And

The glass is fogged

This could only mean one thing. Sunlight has nothing to do with the fogging. The energy is coming from inside the uranium. Henri had a student who was looking for a doctoral thesis. The student decides to study this newly discovered energy of Pitch Blende.

The student manages to grind down the blende into its constituent parts, but realises that it containes not just Uranium but elements far more unstable than it. On of these elements was named Radium, by the discoverer *Marie Curie*.

## Going Mainstream
Pierre Curie then looked at this vial of radium and realised that when touched on the skin it leaves a small sunburn, to us this may sound like danger. But back then tumours were treated by burning them, so back then this was revolutionary. Doctors started wrapping bandages around tumours with Radium pieces inside and using them. Maybe not the right way or directly, but Pierre Curie has just discovered Chemotherapy.

Back then gold was 66c/g, the rising popularity of radium demanded more and more of it. But it takes 7-8 tonnes of pitch blende to make 1 gram of radium, so radium now cost 88,000$/g. HOLY SHIT.

This made radium a luxury, so the city soon started opening up small radium bath houses where the wealthy could come and soak in radiation water. These radiation luxuries also attracted in 1921 a 17 year old American student. He was fascinated by these waste rocks from the Joachimsthal mines which are now so magical. In less than 20 years, he would make sure his fascination would terrify the whole world with a first hand witness account of what it can do. This was Robert Oppenheimer.

The rock got Marie Curie her doctorate, making her the first woman in all of france to do so. It also made her the first superstar of atomic physics in the whole world. The Curie's decided to hold a small party in their graden to celebrate the doctorate.

During the party Pierre Curie pulls out a small glowing vial of Radium. Everyone is shocked. Incluing a 31 year old New Zealander who is curious about what makes this vial grow. In a few years he would go on to answer this question and also generate the largest amount of nobel laureates who have studied under the same professor 8. We are introduced to Ernest Rutherford.

## The Holy Grail of Alchemy
Rutherford and Soddy soon discovered that the Uranium due to the intense strain it is under, throws out parts of itself, i.e protons and neurons. But this means it is no longer uranium, it is something else. Rutherford and Soddy had discovered possibly the holy grail of alchemy. Who says religion cannot be touched by science. The order of decay is

U > Th > Pa > Ra > Rn > Po > ... TOTAL 14 GENERATIONS... > Pb

Someone noticed that when this change occurs, it releases energy. So what if we could force it to transform into something else and harness all the energy it releases.

In 1905 in Berne, Switzerland lives a 25 year old who despite his patent job manages to find time to think. It is here that he, Albert Einstein, discovers E = MC<sup>2</sup>. Which basically translates to: Mass and Energy are one and the same, and when converted the mass releases a phenomenal amount of energy.

Fredrick Soddy when discovered the potential of this said that if this power is harnessed then: things could go very very wrong. Not in those exact words obviously. Inspired by this the first person to imagine what it would be like was actually a Novellist HG Wells who writes "World Set Free" dedicated to not Einstein but Soddy. He also then coins the term. "Atomic Bomb"

In September 12, 1933 in london while walking along a crossing, Leo Szilard discovers that if one Uranium spits out parts of itself, those parts can be used to break apart more uranium atoms by smashing into them, then those more and so on. He had discovered what is a Chain Reaction. Remember, it is September 12, 1933. Means in a country just across the water, Adolf Hitler is Chancellor.

## Germany & Japan
At Kaiser Wilhelm, Germany: Otto Hahn a student of Rutherford when he split the Uranium atom was experimenting with doing so on his own also in Germany. He sent his results and measurements to his friend Lise Meitner due to their puzzling and counterintuitive nature. Lisa Meitner who has now fled germany concludes that Hahn has succeeded in splitting the atom.

Uranium was now breaking into 2 different smaller elements and releasing MORE THAN ONE neutron. Leo Szilard's idea now has materialised and E = MC<sup>2</sup> has now a terrifying reality. Uranium can make a bomb. And the Germans know how to do it. Hitler had violated his Munich oath and taken over Czechoslovakia which means he now has access to Joachimsthal Uranium and how to make a bomb. Szilard hurriedly comes to USA and requests his friend Albert Einstein to write a letter to Franklin D Roosevelt to warn him about what could happen.

FDR asks the Army Corps of Engineers of Manhattan District to build an American Atomic Bomb. This was the later infamously known, Manhattan Project from the artificially greated city of Los Alamos. Neither of these officially even existed.

Very soon before the bomb is even half done, Germany surrenders and all german scientists including Hahn are rounded up. It is discovered that germans were nowhere close to the bomb. Szilard now drafts a petition to the president, the same way he did before to start, now to stop development of the bomb.

> The man who first conceived the bomb, is now also the world's first Anti-Nuclear activist.

Leo Szilard was ignored. Among the various technical difficulties in building the bomb is also enrichment of Uranium. Less than 1% of the ore U is actually U-235, as opposed to the relatively more useless U-238. Scientists have started performing atomic level operations on an industrial scale. They succeed  in making an 80% pure basketball size lump of U-235.

## Explosion and Post War
The first ever trinity test was performed and the heat was so great that the sand around fused into a new green glass now named trinitite, the first and only time it was created. Robert Oppenheimer famously Quoted the Bhagvad Gita and said

> Krishna tells Arjun, "Now I am become Death, the destroyer of worlds". I suppose we all thought that now in one way or another

A new bomb was now taken to the Tinian Island in the pacific where it was loaded into a B-29. On August 6 1945 the plane takes off to Japan. A 6 year old Keiji Nakazawa who would go on to be among Japan's greatest animators. He says in the clear day of Hiroshima, only one small silver gleam was visible moving accross the sky.

**We have completed the Making of The Atomic Bomb.**

<hr/>

End of Part 1.