---
layout: 'layout:post'
---

The United States claimed that the bomb has no other side effects.

In Kakadu National Park in Australia are cave paintings which show that the indigenous people of the area more than 15,000 years ago had made cave paintings on the wall which show that if anyone were to disturb the rock in that area would suffer serious pain and suffering and would have swollen joints and parts and burns. Kakadu today is known to have some of the richest Uranium deposits on land. These diseases that the Kakadu Spoke of are today known as Acute Radiation Sickness.

So while The United States claimed that the bomb has no other side effects, the people of Japan continued to die of an enemy which was not even visible to them. Radiation. This would alter claim of toll of more than 100,000 people.

## The Space Age
3 days later another bomb will be dropped on Nagasaki and thereofore Japan will now surrender to the war. People will start celebrating not because 100s of 1000s of people have died. But because a war that killed 10s of millions has ended. This will be the dawn of a new age. The Atomic Age.

Very soon Communist Soviet Russia will join the initially one man club of the Atom Bomb thus kickstarting the cold war.

The missiles which were used to take the Uranium bombs to enemy territory i.e ICBMs were later the same ones which took Niel Armstrong to the moon and the same ones which put voyager into space. Voyager has now left the solar system and is far beyond. At such distances batteries don't last and sunlight is virtually useless. Every image Voyager has sent us since launch and all data it has given us, is courtesy of Uranium.

## Disaster
On April 26 1986 in Pripyat modern day Ukraine. A small reactor exploded when its engineers and and constructors and multiple environmental factors all went wrong simultaneously. Chernobyl had exploded.

Radiation levels were so high that the whole city was evacuated and the radiation cloud slowly started flowing from Ukraine to Poland to Denmark, Finland and so on. The intensity resulted in a rule that workers could not work more than a very short amount of time in the area. The first responders, the Ukraine Firemen incredibly bravely went in to start containing whatever damage was on its way. They knew they were going in to die. The residents were told that the evacuation is temporary. They have not since returned.

The fear of radiation is that it is invisible, cannot be smelled or seen or touched or felt. We cannot even know if the leukaemia was caused by radiation or was it natural. It slowly creeps up sometime 10 years in the future. The terror of radiation is not that it is dangerous but that it is inconspicuous.

As of 2020 the clothing of the firemen still releases 2 mSv per hour, which is as much as a CT scan of the head. This is after just over 30 years, the half life of Caesium, which means only half of it is gone, the most of the other half of it, is still left.

The worst of all these monsters is Uranium 238 with a half life of 4.5 Billion years. The full life of earth. Which means that 5B years later when the sun is almost engulfing the earth during its final moments. Half the Uranium WILL STILL BE THERE.

A similar situation happened once again in Fukushima in 2011, while much better handled is still not safe to live in there given that it is so fresh. The air and plants are all radioactive. Despite all that happened though, the death toll due to radiation. Is 0. Post Fukushima Japan starts shutting down all nuclear reactors, germany starts doing the same. But the world has 400 nuclear reactors in 30 countries and 70 more are being built. Nuclear is not going anywhere. So what to do?

Some nuclear reactors are so safe, that their Geiger readings are LESS than normal readings found in the middle of even moderately urban cities. But yet each nuclear reactor generates a very large amount of nuclear waste after using only 5% of the available enriched fuel. Leaving the rest to be kept for 100s of 1000s of years. The responsibility of this waste belongs to those companies, and well in all honesty, the companies have done better than Govts so far. -_-

## New Generation Reactors
The next generation of Reactors will run entirely on this waste fuel and be capable of shutting itself down safely in case of emergency. Liquid Sodium or Liquid Fluoride reactors will also be able to operate almost automatically with negligible amount of humans needed minimising the risk.

Uranium saves more lives in a year than it has taken cumulatively in all of its history till now. So where do we go from here.