---
layout: 'layout:post'
---

## Interest & Saving
The poor pay very high interest rates, in part because determining the creditworthiness of the poor is time-consuming (and expensive), creditors have very limited options for recovering capital after default, and while interest rates are extremely high, net returns per account are still relatively low. It is also for these reasons that the poor rarely have access to banks and instead most often have to rely on money lenders, their community, or microcredit for a loan.

> The Indian woman used in the example has a vegetable stand where she sells produce daily. She buys her produce on credit every morning from a wholesaler and then repays daily with interest. The interest is incredibly high at almost 4.7% daily. Compounded over a year would mean that a small $5 USD loan would escalate to a debt of nearly $100 million USD. Out of an obvious gap in the market came micro financing institutions such as Spandana and the Grameen Bank, offering better solutions to the poor. While MFIs do provide a necessary service to the poor, the institutions do not come without their faults. Two faults being high interest rates and very strict repayment policies. MFIs are very focused on low default rates, but this comes at a cost to the poor.

Microcredit offers better interest rates than money lenders, but in comparison, its rigid borrower repayment structure means less flexibility with future cash. Microcredit has reached hundreds of millions, and while its effect has not been revolutionarily transformative, it has demonstrated positive gains. Enterprises that receive microcredit loans rarely grow beyond one employee. There is currently a funding gap for medium-scale enterprises that are still too small for banks but too large for money lenders.

The poor recognize the challenge of keeping cash on-hand and also the necessity of saving money. Having difficulty saving money isn’t necessarily a symptom of frivolous spending — rather, for those living on the absolute margins, by definition there are always necessities that they lack. The poor use non-traditional ways to save including partially building a house brick-by-brick, savings clubs, and storing extra money with money lenders.

While the poor generally aren’t profitable for banks (the per-account administrative costs are too high for the low deposit amount), research shows that when the poor have access to affordable savings accounts, they are able to save more than they otherwise would.

However, establishing savings for the poor isn’t just a technical challenge of creating affordable savings products. For the extreme poor and poor everywhere, it is hard to stay motivated to save when it seems that improving one’s life will be impossible. Thus, for many who may not have encountered examples of how long-term savings can change one’s life, it can make more sense to them to prioritize purchases that will improve life today. The perception that opportunity exists is paramount to success in savings.

### In Simple Words
Microloan recipients have a notoriously low default rate at about 2%, however, these low default rates are anything but automatic. In order to collect on a loan, the lender needs to know many things about the borrower. The lender may need to know whether the borrower is trustworthy, the nature of the borrowers business, etc. The lender may even want to understand the direction of the borrower’s business and provide influence if necessary. However, all of this takes time; and time is money. Because the size of the loan is small, administration fees cannot be covered within the principle itself. Therefore, the interest rates have to go up to cover administration.

Policies implemented by MFIs to keep defaults close to 0% include very strict repayment policies. This puts limitations on the borrower which has received some criticism. Strict repayment policies create a clear tension between the spirit of entrepreneurship and the microcredit organization. Entrepreneurship is usually associated with taking risks and, of course, occasionally failing which MFIs leave very little room for. It is argued that in North America, where bankruptcy is relatively easy and carry’s little social stigma, the culture has encouraged the vitality of American entrepreneurial culture. A clear contrast from the culture promoted by MFIs. While MFIs do provide a necessary service to the poor there are significant limitations the institutions create during the lending process.

### Saving
One reason the poor don’t save proportionally to wealthy is simply because of a lack of access to bank accounts. Instead, the poor have come up with various ways to make sure that they save money rather than spending it.

One popular way is through savings “clubs”. In Africa, the most popular instruments are rotating savings and credit associations (ROSCAs), or commonly known as “merry-go-rounds”. ROSCA members meet at regular intervals and all deposit the same amount of money into a collective pot at each meeting. On a rotating basis, one member receives the whole pot. The fact that the poor have to substitute for lack of access to proper banking by adopting complicated systems such as ROSCAs, may be the reason they don’t save as much as the wealthy.

# Broader Ideas
While the marginal returns (return per dollar of investment) of microenterprise investments can exceed 50%, the businesses themselves are very small and overall returns are quite small. In many cases these businesses do not last more than five years and rarely grow beyond one employee.

Additionally, this means that it may be decades of steady reinvestment before one accrues the necessary funds to purchase a technology that might significantly expand production or business. Knowing this, it can be almost impossible for the extreme poor to believe they’ll be able to change their circumstances and therefore attempt to venture down the path of growth.

Many of the extreme poor see the path to prosperity being through their children getting a salaried government job — not via a small business. The long term stability these jobs afford offers the mental bandwidth and economic opportunity for long term planning and growth towards middle class.

Industrial growth has been shown to benefit the wages of the poor disproportionately.
Urban areas offer better job and education opportunities, but general reliance on the social safety net of one’s community means a move away can be difficult and risky. Better urban planning policy including public housing and improved safety nets can incentivize such moves and subsequent growth in wages of the poor.

It’s often assumed that drastic political reforms are necessary to solve large problems. However, replacing a political institution can be very difficult or impossible. Instead, the authors believe that significant policy improvements can be made in the margins of existing institutions, which may in turn lead to better overall institutions, especially so if the new policies result in small wins and increase trust in existing governments. Greater trust in a government allows it to focus less on voters’ immediate approval and more on long-term gains. Small, non-controversial modifications can have big effects.

Governments exist to solve problems that the market is not able to. While there are many cases of inefficiency, inadequacy, or corruption, even mediocre policies (such as imperfect, rigged elections or no elections at all) can catalyse significant progress. Still, whenever possible lazy thinking in policy design (being constrained by ignorance, inertia or ideology) should be avoided.

In conclusion, the authors report five key findings.
- The poor often lack critical pieces of information and believe things that are not tru
- The poor bear too much responsibility for their own lives (for the wealthy, the right decisions are often automatic)
- There are good reasons that some markets are missing for the poor, or that they face unfavorable prices in them
- Poor countries are not doomed to failure because they are poor, or because they have had an unfortunate history
- Expectations about what people are able or unable to do all too often end up turning into self-fulfilling prophecies.”

## Key Insights
1. Economists seek general solutions to global poverty, but these don’t deal with the problem effectively.
2. Looking seriously at how poor people make economic decisions is vital for eradicating poverty.
3. Non-nutritious food – not hunger – is what reinforces poverty.
4. A reliable and proactive healthcare system is necessary for improving the health of the world’s poor.
5. Developing countries need better school systems that focus on educating all children.
6. The key to population decrease is better social protection of the poor and the empowerment of women.
7. Financial innovations, like microcredits, improve poor people’s lives, but they’re not a long-term solution to poverty.
8. Insurance against misfortune protects against poverty, so governments should incentivize the poor’s coverage.
9. A successful fight against poverty will require small, local actions alongside big institutional reforms.