---
layout: 'layout:post'
---

Poverty is not one single problem, but an incorrectly bunched up group of multiple separate problems. Even after vigilant efforts by economists, a solution to poverty cannot be found. If Overgeneralization of poverty never leads to an effective solution. It is essential that we look at the thought process behind the choices poor people make. To get rid of poverty, we must consider the actions of people in poverty, especially when it comes to how they spend their money.

Hunger is often seen as the cause of poverty, but it is not that simple. We must get rid of the idea that cheaper food is the solution when more nutrient-dense food is what the goal should be. A healthcare system focused on the future well-being of people is necessary. Poor people need a way to stay healthy to avoid more costly problems in their lives. Part of that is in investing in a healthcare system that encourages regular check-ups.

Education is the key to eradicating poverty. Education follows us into adulthood, thus every child deserves an adequate education to secure their future.

# Generalisation & Bulking
Global poverty should not be viewed a single amorphous problem, but rather the combined result of many discrete problems. We should focus on addressing these individual problems. Many economists debate the extent to which poverty traps may exist. The authors define a poverty trap as:

“There will be a poverty trap whenever the scope for growing income or wealth at a very fast rate is limited for those who have too little to invest, but expands dramatically for those who can invest a bit more. On the other hand, if the potential for fast growth is high among the poor, and then tapers off as one gets richer, there is no poverty trap." A poverty trap is a form of feedback loop, the poor get poorer. Recognising a feedback loop is a key here.

Anti-poverty approaches should be based on research and data such as randomized controlled trials. Lazy thinking (being constrained by ideology, ignorance and inertia) is the enemy of progress. What this means in effect is that a lot of Anti-Poverty approaches are discussed with pure talk and not much worth, since they are not backed by any data or findings. We need to do the exact opposite of that.

## Its not food
While lack of food can still be a problem in specific instances, in modern society it is not a contributor to the general persistence of poverty. A major exception is malnutrition in utero and during childhood, which correlates with lifetime education attained and future wages earned. In these cases anti-malnutrition programs like iodine supplementation for pregnant mothers and de-worming pills for youth have demonstrated substantial value. Malnutrition in adults living in extreme poverty has a much less direct effect on wages, but one exception is anaemia (extreme iron deficiency).

The poor, like everyone, are sceptical of others telling them what to eat. Also like everyone, the poor prioritize spending that make life less boring (TV, cell phones, cultural events, tastier but nutritionally low-value food, etc). In other words, even if the poor have the money, they chose to eat food which they WANT more over what they NEED more i.e tastier food as opposed to nutritious food in an already food deficient environment.

Finally, nutrition education is challenging because the personal experience feedback loop takes a long time — investment in childhood nutrition doesn’t financially pay off until years later in adult life. It has a deferred return, a recurring theme throughout understanding poverty traps.

## Healthcare & Education
Children who are sick go to school less and earn less over the course of their lifetimes. While the poor spend considerable time and money on healthcare, it is most often on expensive *disease* cures rather than cheap *preventative* cures. Additionally, a lack of education about health has the side effect of creating a tendency to overmedicate and thus propagate drug-resistant pathogens. People view doctors who prescribe medication or give a shot as effective doctors. So often for diarrhoea the poor tend to be unconvinced that any treatment is actually happening since they get only ORS as a treatment.

There are a number of reasons why preventative care is under-utilized: Facilities may be closed, biological concepts of vaccination and preventative treatments require education, and people tend to procrastinate (time inconsistency). Research suggests that substantial gains in outcomes from a health program can be made simply by making the “right” decision the default decision (for example, only requiring additional action if participants wish to opt out). Also it can be worth it to provide additional incentives to overcome procrastination (for example free food as a reward for getting the next shot in a vaccination sequence).

Low education attainment is not due to lack of schools. Enrollment rates are improving, but current challenges include poor quality of education and students dropping out of school. In poor countries, education outcomes are significantly better in private schools, whereever teacher absenteeism is much lower. One-on-one tutoring and summer camps have also demonstrated significant education quality gains.

Rich countries keep students in school by requiring that they attend until a specific age. Developing countries don’t have the capacity to enforce this, thus other interventions are required. Unconditional cash transfers have been shown to increase enrollment rates (interestingly at the same rate as conditional cash transfers). Also, explaining to parents that income returns increase proportionally with each additional year of education — for students from backgrounds similar to their own — has been useful in preventing parents from pooling resources behind one child while their remaining children discontinue further education. As with education everywhere, parent, teacher, and student perceptions of what the student is able to achieve strongly correlate with learning outcomes.

## Family and Financial Planning
Governments of poor countries often consider family planning a central component to development strategy. While there are clear environmental downsides to large families, there is no research consensus that children in large families have a worse quality of life than children in smaller families. However, parents living in poverty may be incentivized to have a large family as their children’s future adult wages represent an important lifeline once the parents are no longer able to work.

Husbands, family and the culture of a community have a large effect on a woman’s ability to procure contraceptives. Families are defined by specific social roles, which can be slow to evolve and are resistant to change. Attempting to address high fertility by changing family dynamics, high fertility rates may be more easily addressed by the creation of stronger social safety nets, which could reduce incentive for parents to have large families. HOWEVER, the availability of contraceptives hasn’t been correlated with lower community fertility rates. Contraceptives and family planning programs have been shown, however, to help teenagers delay pregnancy. Teenage pregnancy rates are very high in developing countries and directly impact their ability to stay in school. Unfortunately, teenagers may have the greatest unmet need for for family planning and contraceptives because many countries prohibit teenage access to family planning without consent of their parents.

Programs promoting abstinence as strategy to avoid HIV have been measured to have no significant effect on teenage pregnancy rates, possibly because many poor teens get pregnant (and contract HIV) from older men — a decision that is likely economic need-based. The authors conclude that teenagers, like adults, make conscious decisions about when to get pregnant. A pregnancy from an older man may provide financial stability down the road. If there are opportunities to stay in school, teenagers are less incentivized to get pregnant in pursuit of maximizing their economic potential.

**Finance**
Regional economic disruptions may not impact the extreme poor to the same extent that they impact the general economy because the extreme poor are already living on the absolute margin. However because of their level of exposure, local economic disruptions such as a family’s unexpected health emergency can set the poor back substantially — especially if their ability to earn more wealth depends on current wealth (having daily credit available to buy and sell goods, for example).

While the poor are often forced to rely on wildly fluctuating sources of income like non-irrigated farms and day labor work, they limit exposure to any one risk by diversifying their income portfolio (agricultural earnings, seeking work in urban areas, microenterprise, tenant farming, large family, etc). However, this has the effect of preventing occupational specialization (and skill-building). The psychological effect of the poor’s constant financial risk is high stress, which has been shown to impair focus and reduce productivity.

In an attempt to reduce risk, microfinance institutions have experimented with offering health insurance, but the extreme poor may not be willing to pay the required premiums at the cost of tying up cash. Subsidized insurance from governments could reduce risk exposure while also dropping premiums to a level that the poor are willing (and able) to pay.