---
layout: 'layout:post'
---

On 25th August after liberation of Paris, in early September Brussels and Antwerp follow. Antwerp gives the allies access to a much needed port to transfer oil and food accross. The Wehrmacht now operating at less than 1/4th of the resources they need.

Hitler is very angry at losing more than half his territory within just a few months and plans a large scale retaliatory attack.

## Entering Germany
On 11th september allied troops after liberating France, Belgium and Luxembourg enter Aachen which is a border city of Aachen in german territory. Hitler decides to take back Antwerp to choke allies and relies on Russian tactic. Bad Weather.

The Bad Weather would prevent allies from getting any air support and snow covered areas would lower morale. He would then use Blitzkrieg as before to retake the city giving him a break from the west to focus back on the East to resist Stalin.

### Digression: The Allied State of Mind
The Allies at this point have started becoming a little more overconfident of their abilities. General Patton who was earlier leading the army had been replaced by SCAP due to his rash behaviour and lack of discipline in the position of command. He was replaced by General Bradley a relatively inexperienced general who was with Eisenhower in the training barracks and therefore placed in position partly due to familiarity. Eisenhower however was good at managing people and made sure Patton stayed in the western front to keep strategising.

The Americans at this point were fairly certain the war is close to end so much so that they used the Ardennes forests to train new recruits while the Vets rested. The American Army even had an entertainment service called USO which provided entertainment services to the troops. At one point they even flew in German Born pro ally actress Marlene Dietrich who would sing for the Army at one point even performing her famous Lili Marleen.

## Hell Breaks Loose
16 December 1944, 5:30 AM. Bradley expected the war to be bloody but paced as it was with them slowly progressing through the terrain. However suddenly all hell breaks loose as the the 5th Panzer & 6th SS Panzer Division moves in and starts gaining paces assisted from behind with a 90 minute non stop artillery barrage. The New Tiger tanks seem to be specially well equipped to fight this battle as even the germans start wearing White camo to use the snow as cover.

There was no question about it. The Germans within 2 days very visibly had the upper hand. Their 1000s & 1000s of troops quickly start marching to Antwerp taking key roadhubs on the way. Bradley who was then in Paris congratulating Eisen on his promotion to 5 Star General doesn't think much of this attack. Eisen on the other hand forsees what is to come and orders reinforcements.

When next morning Bradley returns the army is still painting their tanks white and making white camo. The germans with their reckless attack by Otto "Daredevil" Skorzeny form a large bulge in the Allied line which keeps deepening.

## Operation Grief
There were very few to no good people in the Nazis anyway. And even then among the worst ones Skorzeny was among the nastiest people. He was famed for liberation of Mussolini (4 days after the Surrender of the Italians, 12 Sept 43) which earned him the Iron Cross. Skorzeny now took a few english speaking german men, disguised them as Allied men and took them on the other side of the frontline. He did whatever he could to ensue maximum chaos, like sending troops and wrong directions with tanks, cutting communication lines, issuing wrong orders etc.

While his men get captured very soon, it does even more damage them captured since now all american soldiers are looking over their shoulder not sure who is friend who is foe since they look the same and speak the same and could easily pass off as Americans. Hitler then unleashes Standartenführer Joachim Peiper with his Waffe-SS "Blowtorch" Panzer Battallion. They basically obliterate everything in the way in interest of reaching Antwerp. Peiper on the way decides that all the prisoners he captured from the allies are slowing him down too much so he instantly killed 84 POWs by firing squad in an event known as the Malmedy Massacare.

5th Panzer reaches Bastogne and stops to take the city with minimal damage to it due to presence of supply lines. The fight goes on for days. Germany now irritated sends an Ultimatum. Brigadier General Anthony McAuliffe sends the briefest reply anyone could have thought of and yet conveys ferocity.

### Mood
The mood and morale of the soldiers at this time is very important. The germans were the same, Machines. The americans however were supercharged. It was -12 and frostbites were rampant, people were dying simply because of taking off their boots. But the Americans remember what happened in Malmedy. They did not intend to move an inch. Each american soldier was fighting with the will power of more than the entire german offensive combined.

Brigadier General Anthony McAuliffe replied. "Nuts".

## Turn around
That night 22 December the sky clears in favour of the americans and air support arrives. The german lines are cut off and americans receive food and ammo. The german's only ally, The Weather God has now left them. The Ardennes Greens were not the Ardennes Fires with german vehicles burning. This has so much effect on the German morale that the following July 20, the July plot is executed.

Stauffenberg comes into hitlers bunker conf room and buts a bomb suitcase under it. The table however is made of thick oak and while a lot of people die, hitler is more or less unharmed. Hitler now surviving fuels his messiah complex since destiny has a plan for him. He holds a televised ceremony for the mourning of those who died in the plot but hidden behind the sad face of TV is a mass execution of 200 senior soldiers and leaders in from the German Army. Hitler will now trust his instincts more than the Wehrmacht Leadership.

Theodor Morell who was Hitler's physician from the 30s, now starts giving him his "Vitamin" supply daily. What it actually contains is Cocaine and a distant cousin of Heroin called Eukodal. While energised daily he is now more and more delusional. Hitler now a 55 year old man looks 80 years old in less than a few days. In his Eyrie bunker before he briefs the generals his trucks take a long windy route before their bearings fall of to avoid any tailing. At the bunker hitler then asks all the Generals to disarm in front of the SS before they are briefed inside of the new battleplan.

Hitler's new battle plan is too unrealistic and dreamy, to the extent that if someone suggested the Avengers Helicarrier he would have approved it. Any rational general would have denied the plans but hitler's generals looking at him brimming to the top with optimism decide to do it also in part due to fear because of the recent cull. No one is willing to be disloyal. Hitler makes the cardinal error of underestimating his enemy and despite starting well his plan is destroyed.

## Reinforcements
Eisen's investment in keeping General Patton in the ranks now pays of dividends. General Patton thinks fast and moves fast and sends 200,000 troops reinforcements. He is crack and is once even reported to have said

"No bastard ever won a war by dying for his country, he won the war by killing the other bastard for his country".

The Germans who held on for the last 10 days have now lost on the 11th. While americans lose 2-3000 people. The germans lose people more than they could have afforded to lose not only in men but in time and strategy. Piper's men now run out of places to go and fuel, so they set fire to the tanks and start walking back to Germany. The whole offensive is pushed back to the River Rhine. At this same time the Red Army moves fast and captures Warsaw on the Eastern side. Hitler and all his men leave the Western Front headquarters and move to bunker beneath the Reich Chancellery in Berlin. He will never leave.

### Controversy
In revenge for Malmedy the Americans decide to shoot all German POWs on spot. When the news of this even reaches Patton he says "It is unfortunate, but we are going to have to keep this quiet." This will not be the most and worst controversial thing the Allies do. The worst is yet to come.

Part 8: Dresden Firestorm.