---
layout: 'layout:post'
---

## Bomber Harris
The British bomber command became serious only after Hitler Bombed Oxford Street (London), but even then their precision bombing strategy was performing poorly and they were being massacred by the Luftwaffe. More than 55% of the bombers would never return. Bomber harris came and turned this around. He gave up on precision bombing and decided to flatten entire cities. He also supported his bombers in every way possible.

Bomber Harris called this "Worker Dehousing" for him, combatants and non combatants were alike, so he was heavily in favour of attacking even civilian housing. To him this would cripple their manufacturing. Harris massively expands his fleet and orders new Lancaster Bombers which are equipped with newfound ground scanning RADAR and Radio Navigation. He has a huge pool of volunteers willing to build a very large fleet. Then in '42 even American joins the war and places some of their B17 Flying Fortresses in Britain. The allied Air fleet is now unstoppable.

## Beginning
On 24th July 1943 germany's largest city Hamburg is hit. 60% of residential area is destroyed and 43K people are killed. Goebels in Germany calls for the civilians to join the strategy in what they call "Total War". The attack is downplayed in the press not only in germany (where it needs to be) but even in Britain (for fear of revolt). Churchill who is shocked at the attack asks the press to report it only as Military bombing and not city bombing.

While bombing like this would demoralise any country, so is not the case with Germany because of Hitler's black and white view of either a 1000 Year Reich or Armageddon. After DDay on order of Churchill this bombing temporarily stops since the ground invasion now looks like the most promising route. Operation Thunderclap of bombing even larger inner cities is Shelved. Harris who called D Day a "Small Boating Expedition" waits for his turn. The same year the Allied Ground war grinds to a halt in Ardennes and Battle of Bulge takes place killing 90,000 Allies.

The Soviets who were pushing on non stop from after Battle of Stalingrad now start suffering in millions. Stalin calls FDR and Churchill at Yalta conf in Crimea and asks for support since it looks like Soviets are the only ones even fighting. The Allies who don't have much ground or sea support left decide to use their Superior Bomber command and revive Operation Thunderclap to attack inner Eastern German cities.

## Take Off
13 Feb 1945 a stream of bombers take off from UK, fly into France, Belgium and then into German RADAR. The Allies throw the Germans off their scent by using a technique called the window where they shower down strips of aluminium which hides what is behind the chaff on RADAR. Early morning at 9, dwindled from constant fighting even the Luftwaffe fails to respond to this raid and doesnt arrive.

After coming out of chaff cover the allies arrive at the city of dresden, who are just finishing carnival celebrations for the day. Dresden is a cultural city layered with centuries old architechture and did not expect to be attacked so the city was more or less normal. Dresden was often called the Florence of the Elbe. Stories of Dresden were so rampant that people even estimated that it would be the western capital of the new world. Dresden even has slim to no defences, most guns have been moved to east and and no one is watching the skies.

Rather than going for rail lines and transport hubs, 244 Lancasters empty out all their bombs within 15 minutes attacking the marketplace. Very large block buster bombs and 200,000 cluster incendiaries are designed extremely carefully to get inside buildings and start fires. These tightly packed streets of wooden buildings start feeding into each other and the subtle wind on that day provides the fires with plenty oxygen to burn.

The RAF taking a page from the Luftwaffe's book goes in with a 2nd wave about 60-90 mins later just enough for the fire fighters to get out from putting out the first round of flames and 500 bombers rain fire again. A fire like this is a called a Firestorm. It creates a whirlwind of hot air which rapidly rises up and is enough to uproot trees and lift up people and pull them into the fire therefore feeding itself even more. Within a few hours the Americans arrive with their precision bombing idea. But the whole city has a cloud of smoke above it so they also engage in a round 3 of area bombing.

The news all around the world next day despite such terror is short and to the point

> Dresden No longer Exists.

## The German Side
Goebbels next day does nothing to suppress the news and lets the press wreck havoc. He spins the news from Nazi Failure to Allied Cruelty taking advantage of the massive CIVILIAN death toll by adding a 0 to it.

If you were on the streets you would just fly off. If you were in an underground celler for protection as was advised to be, you will be cooked alive. If you were to open the door to any building, the wind would suck you in and you will be again burnt alive. If you go to any open area, the whole city was so hot that you would boil alive.

Population of Dresden 1939 - 625K. Population of Dresden 1946 450K. It takes 7 hours the main rescue team to reach the city's main bunker. When they open it they find only rotting smell and green liquid till knee length along with some bones. All 1000 people inside have simply melted. The allies take the bait and the Americans & British start blaming each other. After Dresden, Churchill sent a memo to stop all Area Bombing. After Dresden, Bomber Command and Bomber Harris are entities no one wants to be remotely associated with. Otherwise how are we different from those who are doing the Holocaust? The victory of the allies in WW2 was so complete that the Germans now became the victims.

## Clarifications
Some misconceptions in including those above
- Dresden was a non military city: Dresden was a major railway hum for Germans to transport war material to eastern front as well as victims of the deaths camps further to the east. Dresden also had war related industry with 50,000 people directly working in arms in addition to any forced labour from the camps
- Dresden didn't have any military: in Feb 1945 dresden was the last major garrison town supporting the eastern front in the Nazi Total War effort with 20k troops in the area at the time with 250 anti aircraft guns. In Jan 45 the Wehrmacht had already started turning the city into a Stronghold on orders of General Heinz Guderian
- Death Toll: Due to so much controversy around the death toll, the city of dresden set up a commission of 50 people whose 100 page report finally said
  > The death toll for the allied firebombing from 13-15th Feb 1945 DOES NOT EXCEED 25,000

  So evidently the population reduction was literally because people over 6 years "fled a war"
- Propoganda. There is no easy way to say this but any one claiming a higher death toll or no war industry is actually repeating NAZI PROPAGANDA. 1 day after bombing, Goebbels actually issued a press release which said that Dresden was a non military city with no war industries, he called this bombing a "genocide form the barbarians". They then published leaflets saying that the bombing killed "200,000 Refugees" (despite the fact that it was prohibited for Refugees to settle in the greater dresden area)
- This event is often was to parrot predefined talking points: "Violence on both sides", "history is written by victors", "bombing holocausts" etc etc. This does not however absolve the fact that the bombing was at the very least mortally ambiguous specially considering that some of his own men called Arthur Harris: "Butcher Harris" since he was so ready to sacrifice their lives
- Without getting into weather of not it was a war crime which is a legal problem. The allied bombing of Dresden was what we call a necessary tragedy, a bit like stripping Nazi Soldiers of their rank in violation of the Geneva convention in order to remove all nazi symbolism. We must remember that afterall the allies were fighting a brutal regime which would stop at nothing in its quest for total power.

> "We cried tears of Joy as we saw the red glow in the sky. Dresden is burning. The allies are not far away"
> ~ Survivor of Ghetto Theresienstadt