---
layout: 'layout:post'
---

Hitler now believes Britain is down to its last 200 bombers and sends the Spearhead of the Blitz, the Luftwaffe to battle against the RAF, which would then allow him to conquer the british isles. The battle of britain (BoB) was to be a fight to death eventually deciding the fate of the Third Reich. Hitler's long term plan was to eventually go after the Soviet Union and therefore was in favour of negotiating immunity with Britain. Warmonger Winston Churchill however knew that Hitler had to be stopped. Knowing the general sleepyness of the British people, Churchill had to keep the threat of invasion alive. Therefore.

> I have, myself, full confidence that if all do their duty, if nothing is neglected, and if the best arrangements are made, as they are being made, we shall prove ourselves once again able to defend our Island home, to ride out the storm of war, and to outlive the menace of tyranny, if necessary for years, if necessary alone. At any rate, that is what we are going to try to do. That is the resolve of His Majesty’s Government-every man of them. That is the will of Parliament and the nation. The British Empire and the French Republic, linked together in their cause and in their need, will defend to the death their native soil, aiding each other like good comrades to the utmost of their strength. Even though large tracts of Europe and many old and famous States have fallen or may fall into the grip of the Gestapo and all the odious apparatus of Nazi rule, we shall not flag or fail. We shall go on to the end, we shall fight in France, we shall fight on the seas and oceans, we shall fight with growing confidence and growing strength in the air, we shall defend our Island, whatever the cost may be, we shall fight on the beaches, we shall fight on the landing grounds, we shall fight in the fields and in the streets, we shall fight in the hills; we shall never surrender, and even if, which I do not for a moment believe, this Island or a large part of it were subjugated and starving, then our Empire beyond the seas, armed and guarded by the British Fleet, would carry on the struggle, until, in God’s good time, the New World, with all its power and might, steps forth to the rescue and the liberation of the old. ~ June 4, 1940. Winston Churchill after Dunkirk evacuation

## Preventions
France now under german rule gives hitler full access to the French Fleet. Then the 2nd largest navy in the world. Therefore in his most hateful decision he orders the Royal Navy to sink all of the main French Fleet anchored in Algeria, killing 1300 men.

Germany meanwhile undeterred believes that their army and air force is everything completely not understanding that Britain is a sea fairing nation. They have THE LARGEST NAVY of any country in the world. They are practically the gods of the water. Goering asks Luftwaffe to seal the channel to any british ships. Luftwaffe was in 1940 the most powerful air force outnumbering even the british 2 to 1. 10 July 1940 a large british convoy is attacked by the 60 luftwaffe assisted by then then most capable aircraft the Messerschmitt 109.

The germans however are surprised to see coming out of the clouds a 5 squadron command led by their most feared enemy. The Supermarine Spitfire. An aircraft which was relatively much more closely matched to the 109. The then german Air Force chief Schmidt feeds incorrect intel to Goering which passed on to Hitler makes Hitler intensify the British invasion. With the belief that they are winning the German Operation Sea Lion is started.

Hitler having no idea of who he is up against plans Eagle Day to take out 50+% of the RAF bases. Due to bad weather and bad coordination they are obliterated by the British losing 47 aircrafts and 86 pilots KIA/MIA/CIA. RAF losing only 13.

### Dowding
The british also have a very sophisticated Dowding defence system which can warn them of any aircraft approaching Britain from any direction from 200 km away. This is supplemented by posts manned by 30,000 people non stop to transmit info on the speed, size, bearing and formation of the raids. This information reaches the RAF headquarters IN UNDER 40 SECONDS. The filter room and the control room know where they are minute by minute from the moment they take off from Northern France and their locations are being transmitted to the fighter command within the minute.

## Turn Arounds
The company producing Spitfire launches a public fund where people from all around the commonwealth start donating to build the machines. Hitler and Goering due to wrong and inflated reports overestimate their victory and underestimate the British ability to rebuild. In one year ~500 Spitfires were built and only about ~250 109s. Every british airfield was also back in operation in less than 24 hours. The

Captured planes revealed a codeword "Knickebein" which gave them furthur intel that Germany was planning to bomb Britain at night. They would be screwed if that happened. Goering now coming to senses assumes that the South is protected and the west and north wont be such. So Germans launch a barrage of 2000 sorties from Scotlands side to Britain. But they soon learned that the Dowding system went around the coast. So in an even the Luftwaffe called Black Thursday they lost 75 planes in a single day.

Goering changes strats. He forces the 109s to slow down from 300 mph to 200-250mph and act as escorts for bombers. The day arrives when on a single day ~90 bombers get through the defences headed by ~200 109s and wreck havoc on the British Isles. In a surprising turn of events, since Britain was good at keeping sealed shut, the strategy of bombing airfields which was actually going well, was changed by Goering and he ordered the Knickebein system to kick in. They decided to bomb Britain around the clock till they submit.

Hitler had given strict orders to not attack London since that was a political act. However, one bomber too many missed a target and bombed London. Warmonger was able to then get approval to attack Berlin. When so was done, hitler was shocked since Berlin is at the very edge of what the RAF can do. So therefore he decides to stop fighting the RAF and destroy the British Will to fight. He decided to attack London.

## Acceleration
Goering on 7 September, 1940 deploys 700 aircrafts to attack Britain. All of which head directly for London. All 21 of the RAFs squadrons protecting London are deployed. The most brutal days of London have started. London starts burning. For except one of the next 57, Luftwaffe will bomb London for 24/7 non stop. The london docks fire one of the most fierce fires in history ever is recorded. The fire runs so hot that paint on ships far away drips off, pavement blocks start melting. The Blitzkrieg had begun.

Contrary to Hitler's expectation however. Rather than turning on him, the public strongly stands behind him. The German bombing keeps intensifying as Britain braces to be invaded: Children are sent to the countryside. September 15th was to be the last clear day for Luftwaffe to attack in clear weather. A day which later came to be known as Battle of Britain day.

In the final count of the day 56 German planes are downed. Only 28 RAF. Every single of the 500 Luftwaffe was met by wave after wave of RAF fighters. The Battle of Britain was won by multiple factors and multiple people. The most significant of them were
- Winston Churchill - For deciding to fight the battle and turning the tide of the WW
- Hugh Dowding - The man who made the British Isles an Iron Wall.
- Keith Park - The man who wielded the weapon, commander of the 11th group

Britain turns the tide of the war in the Battle of Britain as Hitler starts looking towards the Soviet Union.