---
layout: 'layout:post'
---

While Hitler & Stalin were in a marriage of convenience as they attacked Poland, Stalin was left consolidating his loot from the war as Hitler decided to start expanding west after he finished conquering all of Western and Central Europe.

## Operation Barbarossa
Early Morning 22nd June 1941, Hitler starts to Unleash the Blitzkrieg on the Soviet Union. He thought that Communism and therefore Stalin had to be defeated. He intended to quickly silence the red army within 6-8 weeks. He very quickly rushes through and rips through Ukraine, Belarus, Lithuania, Latvia, Estonia and some of Russia. He holds a line from Leningrad to Rostov engulfing even all of Kiev. Both ways dangerously close to Moscow and Stalingrad.

Hitler now knows that the Nazi machine needs to eat in order to keep going. So he decided to briefly head south to Baku's oil fields. But instead notices Stalingrad and decides to take it. Not just because it is a big city but because it bears Stalin's name. It it was sacred to him since this is where he fought and won in the Russian Civil war. Stalin furious at the loss of so much of Russia decides to issue Order 227: Not one Step Back. He rains shame on the red army and says the army is not to recede even one step in to Holy Soviet Soil.

Hitler Splits his army into 2 parts and sends half to Baku and half to Stalingrad. Stalin prepares all of Stalingrad as a large single army and asks the civilian popular to prepare for war. He appeals to their Motherland sentiment from before the revolution temporarily sidestepping the communist ideals [... So communism doesn't even work in wars lmaooooo].

As the Russian people dug trenches to prepare for tanks and slow them down they also burned down entire towns and villages so that the German's don't find anything half useful on the way to Stalingrad. The city then is hit by something unexpected. Bombers. 600 German Bombers rip through all of Stalingrad reducing beautiful city blocks down to rubble  of Concrete and steel. 40,000 Soviets were killed that day (penny change to Stalin).

## Russian Retaliation
Stalin then orders everyone who is in Stalingrad to remain in Stalingrad and no one is to flee. The only way of going back is via the river which is also occupied by the army. The Soviet however not only mobilize men but also women. 1 Million women volunteered to fight in the war from Stalingrad alone, close to equal proportion as men. They were not only nurses, doctors and support staff but also about half of them on the frontline. This for Nazis was a de-naturification brought about by the onslaught of communism. The Nazis were shocked to see women fighting on the frontlines. And each of them who were working in the support staff was also very well trained in figthing and shooting. With all men and women fighting this effectively meant that the Germans were not fighting the Soviet Army. But the Soviet People.

The Germans are able to advance to the Volga river. This makes Stalin boil. He issues one more statement effectively saying that any land beyond Volga is no land at all. Which effectively meant. If Volga is gone, that's it for the Soviet Union. He sends in General Chuikov who is every bit like German Paulus in combat and every bit like Stalin in Combat. He is immediately able to boost morale by orders of magnitude.

Chuikov knew from his earlier retreat in Stalingrad that the German's like to fight at a distance and they need space since the Blitz has ground to a halt due to the whole city being reduced to rubble and they can't move. So Chuikov denies them this very space they need by splitting his army into small units of 'Stormtroopers' who are all ordered to be at a grenades distance from each German but ushering a new era of Warfare. Bloody, Brutal and Extremely close combat.

## Boxing Ring
Both the people of the armies are now within meters of each other sometimes in neighbouring buildings. Everytime Paulus killed an infantry more would just arrive as an endless supply into the meat grinder. Stalin at this point didn't care about lives, for him it was about defending his name at all costs (Like it was in Ukraine lolololol). The rubble of stalingrad gave Russia an additional advantage, it made good for snipers. So women who tend to be good at patience and stability made some of the best russian snipers in Stalingrad and they were loads of them. Stalin's primary objective now was just to keep the Germans at bay because what was arriving was worse than anything the Russians could ever give the Germans.

The Russian Winter.

The battle grinds to complete stop with some minor lines here and there. Russia scorches everything that could be of value to the germans and they therefore have to use a very long line of supply chain for anything stretching them extremely thin. The Germans now decide however to finish it off. They start moving forward once again but are met with a frontline of 1 million men and women they didn't even in their wildest dreams expect. Commander in Chief Zhukov and Chuikov together had been planning a counterattack since mid september and this was to be completely unleashed upon the germans. Morning of November 19th the Germans are paralyzed by what they see.

## Soviet Pincer
The soviets use extreme care to move so many troops over night and in secret to 2 separate locations in Stalingrad. They realise that most of the people fighting them were Romanians who wanted their territory back which was taken from them but didn't have any business being this far ahead. The germans were concentrated in a very small region very near the river. The Soviets then pulled a Blitz on the ones who invented the Blitz. After Operation Oran of moving the troops in place they launch a massive counterattack where they do a 2 pronged attack and within just a few days meet up at Kalach encircling the entire german flank of Stalingrad.

During OpOran the Russians undergo a massive rearmament program where they prepare their air force and army all over again in order to dominate the Germans. The skies were no longer dominated by the Luftwaffe. The germans are enclosed in what they call a 'Kessel'.

When hitler was asked for help he refused Paulus and told them to stay in Stalingrad because he would not retreat against the Slavs. Goering then had a delusion that they could supply the army by air which they weren't able to. They needed to transport 800tons/day and could do at best 15 tons which is also later cut off by a russian Air Blockade. Hitler then sends Manstien for ground rescue but the Soviet troops hold him back very well and don't allow him to reach the kessel. The russians manage to thin down the Germans into 2 small flanks which are now disconnected. They even offer surrender but hitler Rejects.

Paulus who can no longer fight due to thinned down troops with no food or fuel and extreme cold is promoted to Field Marshall by Hitler since no field marshall has ever surrendered and very few people even make it that far. However Paulus in order to save his soldiers decided on the 31st of January on General Chuikov's Birthday: To Surrender.

## End
The russian winter without a doubt helped the russians plan the counter attack but the effect of winter is greatly bloated since most of the battle actually happens before the winter. The plan to attack stalingrad in itself was just one large exercise in hubris. Despite just having come out of holodomor the Russians thought that they had nothing to loose such was the Barbarism and brutality of the Nazis. Hitler had massively underestimated this will power of the Soviets and the sheer industrial might of the Union.

Only 5000/91000 germans who went to Stalingrad ever return to germany that too after long months in captivity. The battle of stalingrad was the most bloody battle in all of world war and an estimated 2 M people on both sides have died. This battle however signalled something far more significant. It was the first time the germans had lost so colossally. It signalled

That the Nazi's aren't invincible.

*We know what this means. Normandy is coming.*