---
layout: 'layout:post'
---

Rarely do we see one Naval Fleet completely Annihilate another. One such event was the Battle of Midway. Completely changing the tide of the war.

## Post Pearl Harbour
The US didn’t always possess its current might of the military as we see today in fact just before the WWII they were the 17th largest army in the world nowhere close to the first with the next largest 5 combined today. We see the impact as they then believed that the Navy was a inferior form of military and wasn’t much needed.

FDR however wants a response attack and pressures Admiral Nimitz to do a bombing op on Tokyo in retaliation from inside Japanese Waters. Nimitz is forced to be creative with the little bit of the fleet that he has left and commands his planes to attack Japan and then keep flying to land in safe china. The attack goes well as a PR victory and some bombs even land in the Emperor's Palace Grounds. Yamamoto sees that America used whatever was left of their fleet enraged at this decides to attack amd finish off what is left of the fleet.

Yamamoto decides to lure the americans into a fight around the islands of midway which the americans frequently use as a refuelling station at a halfway point between Hawaii and Japan. Just before midway however they are able to spot and attack USS Lexington & USS Yorktown near Dutch East Indies and sink one and damage one. Thus harming 2/4 American Aircraft Carriers.

### Japanese Plan
Japan decides to send a few small chunk of its fleet to Midway islands and then plan a trap for the Americans where they will first send aircraft to clear out the skies then send army to get land superiority and firmly settle their base. By the time the Americans have departed from Pearl Harbor as the they reach the Midway Islands the Japs would have already attend superiority in the region can immediately overwhelm them.

American Cryptographer Crew 'Hypo' was lead by crackpot Rochefort who had lived in Japan so therefore not only knew the language but also the culture and interpretation of meaning. He was able to decipher some messages and anticipate an impending invasion to Midway a week before.

## Midway
As Japan start sending aircrafts to Midway to start bombing them they see no resistance other than a few anti-aircraft guns which makes them bomb the entire place BUT. They notice that there are no bombers on the island or tarmacs, which are usually present. Within a few minutes several highflying Bombers the  untested B-17s start descending from above the clouds and rapidly bombarding their aircraft carriers.

Given the fact that these are high flying planes are the bomb takes a very long time to drop the Japanese are able to look for bombs in quickly make hard turns as visible from pictures from then on. These aircraft carriers deploy the Japanese zeros to fight the American aircraft which are relatively less experienced and worse off.

After this initial exchange was over while the Americans were not able to deal significant blows to the Japanese they were able to slow down the pace of the battle. The Japanese now exhausting all of their naval resources start with switching to ground based attack resources in a full 90min-2 hour operation. General Nagumo who is relatively less prepared is fully committed to attacking Midway again. Just then an intelligence plane radios back to the Japanese Flagship that there are unidentified American ships heading to midway.

### Background
Despite the anticipation beforehand from the 'Hypo' crew they are turned down from Washington from taking any actions as Washington did not think there will be significant threat. Admiral Rochefort was however able to get a back-channel to Nimitz who was then able to commence attack to Midway after basic confirmation of intelligence.

The intelligence beforehand was that the Japanese were to attack some 'AF' which Rochefort was sure was Midway but still had to confirm. So he sent out an open broadcast from Midway which said 'Midway is low on water'. They then deciphered the Japanese broadcast that said 'AF is low on Water' this made them sure it was Midway. Nimitz then told the Pearl Harbour Crew who had asked for 3-6 months to fix USS Yorktown that they had 3 days to get it ready for battle. AND BY GOD IT WAS. So the Americans now had 3 Aircraft carriers [USS Hornet & USS Enterprise also] and an Unsinkable carrier the Island itself.

On top of all this Admiral Nagumo was a very by the book Leader and didn't send any small planes they had which could have gave bought them more time to prepare and chose to wait it out anyway.

## America Arrives
At 9:20 AM early morning several squadrons from Nimitz's counter attack arrive. However the Americans are vastly less coordinated than Japan is. Their first wave of ultra slow planes contains only 10% effective torpedos. Of all squadrons sent only 4 planes actually make it back. Everyone else is lost.

America now only has their dive bombers to bank on which have been sent in the wrong direction. And keep wandering. They are dangerously low on fuel. The war shifts to the Japanese side back as the americans lose every advantage they have.

Suddenly 20 mins later the Dive Bombers squadron spot a lone Japanese Destroyer and get a signal that the entire fleet is around. Within 10 minutes they find the entire Japanese fleet who have recently painted a large Hinomaru on their decks making it a large red bullseye. At this same time the planes from USS Yorktown also reach the Japanese fleet from behind.

Admiral Nagumo's squadrons trapped below decks are unprepared and have bombs lying all around since they are mid switch of strategies. The ships are also in disarray far away from each other as they were just evading the Torpedo squadrons. 4 American Dive Bomber Squadrons have arrived and are about to ANNIHILATE the Japanese fleet.

Within 5 minutes 3 Carriers are dealt decisive blows. Unlike the Torpedo bombers the American Dive Bombers are EXTREMELY well prepared and accurate as hell. These bombs rip through decks and detonate taking extra help in burning from the bombs lying around. There is no way to escape and the people are roasted alive since they cannot even abandon post. In another few mins The last remaining Japanese Carrier decides to attack USS Yorktown with some effect however 'The Fighting Lady' the ship as it is called retaliates and sinks the last aircraft carrier turning the whole battle of midway on its head.

## End
In a space of less than a few hours more than 3000 people have been killed from both sides and half of the Japnese fleet, The heart of it has been completely Annihilated. While Japan was dealt a terrible blow from this battle, the worst of it was yet to come.

The Kamikaze.