---
layout: 'layout:post'
---

From 1941 Hitler orders the fortification of the entire Atlantic Coast. Starting from French-Spanish border to Arctic Norway. The German Atlantic Wall. in '43 the Allies decide to try to retake Dieppe in France but are completely one sidedly destroyed. 900 Canadians KIA & 2000 CIA. Getting troops on land is the easy part but getting Armour was the hard part. The British & Germans knew that they can't do this alone. Meanwhile America was fighting the pacific against the Japanese in Midway and Guadalcanal.

## Operation Overlord
FDR, Stalin & Winston Churchill meet at the Tehran Conference deciding to do something about The Atlantic Wall. Churchill is heavily resistant due to his recent losses at Dieppe. The Americans are however adamant and eventually convince Winston Churchill who signs operation overlord to attack German Mainland. The Americans & British start working together in secrecy too much even for that time.

Hitler meanwhile losing large amounts of territory to the Soviets expects a British invasion in the 3000 miles of Atlantic Wall. He expects the invasion to be of highest probability at Calais due to minimum crossing distance from the North and puts his most work there. He however is unsure and still puts General Rommel the then most popular and best general the whole German Offensive. He looks at the Lax security and decides to lay down 1000s of miles of new Barbed Wire, millions of mines and new obstacles capable of withstanding an invading army.

The Allies start doing air recon rides to look at the new defences put up at the french border and the british even send midget submarines with which two people swim all the way to ground to collect soil samples and return. The soil must be strong enough to hold an army and tanks but soft enough to not damage amphibious crafts which touchdown.

## Hobart's Funnies
As they were called were a series of ridiculous looking tanks made by Percy Hobart in order to invade Normandy with creative new tools like Amphibious Tanks, Flamethrower tanks, Tanks Carrying Hay to cross ditches etc. There were these tanks called the Flail Tanks which had two long arms in front of it with rapidly rotating chain arms which would flail the land in front of it detonating any mines prematurely. There were also Ram tanks which would ride up into a wall and other tanks can then climb over it.

## Preparations
The Allies secretly start laying down underwater piplines to carry oil accross the channel to support them on the other side. They even built 2 floating harbours the size of dover and decided to float them to position on main day. Mulberry Harbours as they were called would be an unloading and refuelling dock just before touchdown.

The Scale of normandy is absolutely nuts. There are 1200 warships, 4000 landing crafts, 12000 aircrafts and 1 millon people. The Army Navy and Airforce start working as a single command unit lead by newly made Supreme Allied Commander Dwight D Eisenhower. Assisted on land and leading the major invasion force is British General Bernard Montgomery. While the exact location of the invasion is a tight secret the date is not. The date dictated by the tides was to be 5th of june (which would later be delayed to a day later because of bad weather). Since they would have to travel longer distances but don't have to risk damaging any landing craft due to submerged traps.

The allies decide to send false intel to the Germans via double spies and also false air inflated tanks and ships to misdirect the Germans into thinking the invasion will be from Norway and also from Cherbourg due to its protrusion into the water making the germans redirect huge forces to these areas in strategic misdirection lead by General Patton.

## Beginning
The allies start by bombing Normandy Coastline destroying all the RADAR stations and also inwards destroying the supply chain lines and the transportation lines inwards simultaneously cutting off the German Troops in Cherbourg from Omaha. The Bombing makes the germans sure than an invasion is imminent and they intercept radio which leads them to falsely believe it would be Calais. The deception was so great that even the Troops expected to turn left to Calsis on departure but they later kept heading rightward to their suprise to Normandy.

The night before the invasion 8000 British and 13000 American paratroopers get into planes and start landing in the fields behind Normandy. Their first job is to assemble and regroup. Due to Germans being partly prepared they had flooded the fields and places strategic hindrances resulting in 1/3rd of all paratroopers dying. The rest however will be instrumental in splitting the German force into 2 pieces one to fight them and one to go to beach. The troopers are then assisted furthur by gliders who drop critical armour and artillery.

The Germans still unsure on how much to move stall due to the absence of both Hitler who was sleeping and no one wanted to wake the Furher. And Rommell who was in Germany celebrating his wife's birthday since the forecast predicted bad weather (and it turned out to be wrong). 4 critical Panzer divisions could not move without direct orders from either of them.

Early Morning at pre dawn the Germans in the bunkers are terrified at what they see. An Allied armada of 6,500 vessels is heading to coast. A Sea of Steel is about to drown them.

## Landing
There are 5 distinct areas: The Americans to the Utah & Omaha, The British to Gold & Sword and The Canadians to Juno. Of these Utah beach was easy, only 100 Germans man the bunkers and 197 Allied die, far less than estimated. Omaha however is a different ball game alltogether. It was called 'the longest day' later by Rommell. Omaha is manned by 1000 Wehrmacht soldiers and 3000 allies die in a disastrous landing. Most of the amphibious tanks are launched too early and sink.

Within an hour both the british and canadians land with half successes. In another one hour hitler has woken up and is being told that there are two massive fleets outside Calais and Normandy is a diversion. The technique used here was that airplanes were loaded with massive reflective panels below that reflected back all radar signal and created an image that a swarm of the size of a cloud is approaching. The planes then go ahead and launch Rupert troopers which are nothing more than decoys giving the Germans an image of deception so that they are actually more Lax when the real troopers arrive.

By 3 PM the allies have captured all beaches with 160,000 soldiers moving inward heading to Caen. Hitler realizes he has been fooled and sends in the 12th Panzers to assist the 21st Panzers. Combined they are the most feared SS Panzer Division known to fight to the last bullet. Not to death. To the last bullet. Half of these are however redirected to neighboring cities because of more Ruperts from the Allies thus splitting the force. Within a few hours the germans are able to build a wall of tanks outside Caen and hope to push the Allies back to the sea.

In the following days the British artillery is far superior to the Germans however the Germans have superior tanks and one overwhelming 88 mm gun which can rip through the Sherman tanks. The following tank battle is the largest tank battle the british army has ever fought assisted by British Bombers dropping 7000 tonnes of bombs. They are joined in a few days by the American bombers who drop in similar proportions. Simultaneously to landing and capturing the beaches inland from the beaches the armies quickly built airfields so that small planes can still land on it and in a few days airstrips for bombers to land.

## End
After 7 days of continuous fighting with the Allied Montgomery "Monty" had estimated to end within one day due to allied air supremacy and relentless bombing of Caen and its supply network the German army started Getting thinned out and started running out of bullets. The 7th Wehrmacht division Hitler for more than 4500 tonnes of supplies per day less than 1/4th of which was getting through. The Shermans despite being inferiour tanks have a MASSIVE repair network which brings a lot of them back up quickly. When a Tiger or Panther tanks fails however it is gone forever.

The Allies are shocked at how many horses they see dead in Caen as they had been lead to believe that the germans were a mechanized army. Turns out they were just Brutal and not nearly as mechanized as previously advertised. The Allies manage to trap 100,000 German soldiers in one more Kessel. They kill another 10K and take 40K prisoners, with 50K escaping. The Normandy Landings are successful.

On 25th of August 1944 Paris is liberated and the swastika is taken down from the Eiffel Tower once again marking the independence of France. Winston Churchill swore to fight them on the beaches and has been true to his word turing to tide of the War in Europe. D-Day now marks the beginning of the end of a 10 year long war.

## Coda
The Allied invasion of Normandy is advertised as the most successful and large scale invasion ever. While it very much was it is important to not get lost in the statistics of large numbers and forget that every one of those soldiers had a name, family and place to go back to. On Both sides.

Private Ryan also went home only because 3 of his brothers died to make that possible. As the allied moved inwards they realised this very fact as their primary instinct became not defence but to escape the stench of rotting bodies of animals and civilians alike. More than half a million people have died on both sides. 20,000 French civilians are also killed in the process.