# PRIME STORIES
## Big Explosions
All of the following have 2 conditions: 1. They must be in recorded history. 2. They cannot cause mass extinctions on earth. So KT event and all are excluded.

[Halifax](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Halifax_Explosion): **2.9Kt TNT** The biggest *man made non nuclear* explosion so far has been the halifax explosion where two ships collided with each other and one of them was loaded to the absolute capacity with explosives. The ship was completely blown apart and a powerful blast wave radiated away from the explosion initially at more than 1,000 metres per second. Temperatures of 5,000 °C and pressures of 1000s of atmospheres accompanied the moment of detonation at the centre of the explosion. White-hot shards of iron fell down upon Halifax and Dartmouth.

[Tsar Bomba](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tsar_Bomba): **58Mt TNT** The biggest *man made* explosion so far has been the tsar bomba hydrogen bomb by Soviet Union. The mushroom cloud of Tsar Bomba was seen from a distance of 161 km. The crown of the cloud was 65 km high at the time of the picture. When detonation occurred, the shock wave caught up with the Tu-95V at a distance of 115 km and the Tu-16 at 205 km. The Tu-95V dropped 1 kilometre in the air because of the shock wave but was able to recover and land safely.

[Mount Tambora](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/1815_eruption_of_Mount_Tambora): **33Gt TNT** The biggest *natural terrestrial* explosion so far has been the 1815 Mount Tambora. The whole planet was engulfed in smoke for about a year and global temperatures went into a nosedive. This is the only known eruption of magnitude VEI-7.

[Tunguska Event](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tunguska_event): **30Mt TNT** The biggest *natural extra-terrestrial* explosion on earth so far has been the Tunguska Event in Siberia, Russia. The whole planet was engulfed in smoke for about a year and global temperatures went into a nosedive. This is the only known eruption of magnitude VEI-7.

[Ophiuchus Supercluster eruption](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ophiuchus_Supercluster_eruption): **Unknown** Well its in space and its a supermassive blackhole domino effect. What more to say


# MAIN STORIES
### Fermions vs Bosons
The primary difference between fermions and bosons is that \
Fermions obey Pauli Exclusion Principle. They form energy levels of an atom \
Bosons don't obey this rule instead bose statistics, they allow things like superfluidity, superconductivity, lasers etc

Therefore a fermion is anything with spin of half integers $$1/2, 3/2, 5/2$$ etc. \
A Boson is anything with a whole integer spin \

### Cooper Pair
Helium atom behave like bosons (called a Composite Boson), cooled they will all have the same quantum state and be a superfluid. Helium Spin 1/2 + 1/2  = 1. Properties and all like superconductivity are because electrons come together to form a cooper pair