# PRIME STORIES
## Sarengetti Recycling
### Main Meat
The first rounds of dead and left behind wildebeests are eaten by lions. They eat the bulk of the meat and major nutritional areas. The leftovers are then taken by hyenas.

Hyena bite is the strongest of all animals in the african savannahs. There are large amounts of Wildebeests which are occasionally left as carcasses. The hyenas break the bones with their bites and use the strong digestive acid to digest the whole bone and flesh out marrow from it.

The left overs from hyenas are then taken by Vultures whose groups use that as primary source of food. They are specifically well equipped to flesh out meat from hard to reach areas. This is then given back to the grassland as poop in a full cycle returning things like iron, nitrogen etc.

### Leftovers
This leaves just the bones behind which are sometimes used by Giraffes to get potassium and calcium which is not found in their regular diet and in most cases broken down by insects and microscopics. All the waste is broken down by dung beatles, then termites, then fungi and is finally back to the soil as it started.

## Forgotten Programmers
**ENIAC Six**: The group of 6 ENIAC programmers who made the ENIAC (the first fully programmable pc) were the first people ever to program a computer. ENIAC was used to calculate ballistic trajectories for the US Govt. The 6 were all human computers.
**Kathleen Booth** - Dr Kathleen Booth was the one of the first person to every write computer assembly language. She built one of the first NLP machine translation dictionary algorithms.
**Mary Allen Wiles** - The first software for the first Personal computer. LAP6 had a text editor and file manager and was made for the user. It set the stage for modern PC OSs
**Grace Hopper** - She made navy coding accessible to common people. She made A-0 which translated FORTRAN to machine code. Also then FLOW-MATIC which allowed english like programming instructions. Her work on this later along with her work in the private sector led to create COBOL.
**Frances Allen** - SHe made optimising compilers. DAMN. It could also do multiple languages in multiple languages out. She was the first woman IBM fellow and also win the Turing Award.


# MAIN STORIES
### Why not Python
- It doesn't have constants
- It is dynamically typed
- WHY IS CODE SCOPE DECIDED BY SOMETHING INVISIBLE
- Classes in python don't have private variables
- (Obsolete) Python 2 vs Python 3 -_-

### .-- .... .- - / .... .- - .... / --. --- -.. / .-- .-. --- ..- --. .... -
The phrase 'What Hath God Wrought' was the final message radioed to commercial ships via Morse Code when the system was discontinued in 1999. It was also the first official message sent by inventor Samuel Morse when he demonstrated the system for Congress in 1844.

### Speak the Truth
After inventing the lie detector, William Moulton Marston was asked to create and develop a superhero for DC Comics. At his wife's insistence that the superhero be female, Marston created Wonder Woman. Her lasso forces the person who it is tied to to tell the truth

### Smeared Fossil records
The Signor–Lipps effect says, since the fossil record of organisms is never complete, neither the first nor the last organism in a given taxon will be recorded as a fossil. This is often applied specifically to cases of the youngest known fossils of a taxon failing to represent the last appearance of an organism. The inverse, regarding the oldest known fossils failing to represent the first appearance of a taxon, is called the Sppil–Rongis effect (Signor–Lipps spelled backwards).

This also causes mass extinctions to look like long drawn out events which lasted over a long period as opposed to being instantaneous.

# QUICKBITS
> The medals in the Tokyo 2020 Olympic Games are made from metals recovered from recycled cell phones collected since 2017

> Olympic swimming is only timed to hundredths of a second because the pools aren’t built to the millimetre tolerances necessary to measure thousandths of a second