# PRIME STORIES
## Immune Response
### Level 1
When there is an external bacterial invasion say from a cut from a dirty twig, the surviving cells in the local region release a stress response which triggers the release of first responders called 'Macrophages', these are cells about 1.5-3x size of the average cell. These macrophages can eat hundreds of bacteria each before they are exhausted and call for reinforcements called Neutrophils

Neutrophils have one singular purpose. To kill. They are so merciless that they eventually have to kill themselves so that they don't damage your body existing cells. Some Neutrophils continue killing even after they are dead. *What are these damned John Wicks*.

### Level 2
Meanwhile the blood brings in a lot of fluid to this area. This shows up as inflammation. The fluid brings along protein with it which kills bacteria by making holes in them. While this happens, to prevent death of this level also fails, the Dendritic Cells take bacterial samples and cut them into smaller pieces and hop on to the lymphatic system.

On the lymph network the dendritic cells look for T-cells which have the exact protein matching the bacteria on the wound (there is almost always a match, why may be discussed some other time). This T-Cell binds to the dendritic cell and starts rapidly dividing to thousands and thousands of copies. These T Cells split into 2 parts. One part goes to wound site and recalibrates the Macrophages to start fighting again violently with more precision. One part goes to the inside of the body to activate B Cells, The Antibody factories.

### Level 3
About a week after first infection the B Cells have rapidly divided and reached the site to attack it brutally. These B cells immobilise the bacteria so that the Macrophages can attack and finish them off. After this most cells are destroyed to prevent extra damage but some T Cells get converted into memory cells to stick around and guard the area against further infection of the same kind for years.

Some B Cells will also keep producing anti bodies in faint amounts to keep protection up. The wound will soon disappear and be like it never existed probably barring scars. While for us this was a minor inconvenience. For the millions and millions of cells this was a fight to death.


# MAIN STORIES
### Seedless Watermelons
Seedless watermelons are a crossbreed between two kinds of seeding watermelons that results in a sterile hybrid that is unable to produce seeds. It is the same concept as how a mule is a cross between a horse and donkey, and it cannot reproduce

### Razor Theory
Occam's Razor is one of many 'Razors' in Philosophy - including Hitchen's Razor and Hanlon's Razor - all are principles that allow you to 'shave off' unlikely explanations.

### US is metric
The US is one of 3 countries on Earth not using the metric system, but the US N.I.S.T. says that's a myth because the US has been metric for years. Its just the people in everyday life who haven't adapted.

### Anti Social Males
Men show this similar behaviour such as anti social young males cannot be grouped. They will make each other worse and also that social and anti social boys grouped together will not make the anti better, but the social worse[[*Cambridge-Somerville Youth Experiment*](https://link.springer.com/referenceworkentry/10.1007%2F978-1-4614-5690-2_48)]. But encouraging each other to do self harm or eat less is endemically a female tendency

### Testosterone hormone therapy
Things that are irreversible
- More Masculine voice
- Face will become rounder
- Shoulders will broaden
- Fat redistribution
- High cardiac arrest risk (Higher than both genders combined)
- Very very risk on fertility
- Skeletal structure starts changing

### Gender Change Surgery in Teenagers
The USA/Canada law says that if a Adolescent goes to a therapist claiming any trans-gender dysphoria or so much as an inclination. The therapist is required to affirm that and start treatment. This is not how medicine should work.

The science (Ken Zucker) says that just waiting for some time will lead 70-80% of the people to conclude that they are simply gay and mistook it as gender dysphoria.