# PRIME STORIES
## Higgs Bubble
Of all ends of the universe, vacuum decay will be by far the most thoroughly done. Since it would rewrite the fundamental laws of the universe.

### Design
Think of the universe as made up of multiple adjoined rings. So a ring grid on lattice points say. Each ring can oscillate on given vibrational modes, each of these vibrations will then propagate in a 3D ripple in all directions. This is what makes up the Fields in QFT. Each Quantum Field is a set of a these modes of oscillations.

### Zero Modes
For most QFs the minimum energy field value is 0 and therefore they happen to be at zero almost everywhere. This is not true for Higgs field, the Higgs Field has a non 0 minimum energy state. This fills the universe with a soup of some amount of Higgs-ness.

And not just one but multiple of these local minima exist. We don't know which one we are in although recent papers INDICATE a probable local minima very close to the global minima.

### Vacuum Decay (from Bubble Nucleation)
These two states are called True Vacuum (Global) and False Vacuum (Local), this is no problem so long as the particle in the false vacuum does not 'realise' that a true vacuum exists. In such a scenario the particle can tunnel from the false vacuum to the true vacuum. This will create a small sort of bubble after migration after which the migrated particle bubble will be in constant pressure from a kind of surface tension to collapse and interior to expand.

Since interior grows as cubed and surface as squared after a point the bubble will keep expanding and resetting the laws of universe inside the bubble till it eventually swallows the whole universe. We will not see it coming either since it moves at close to c.

### Chances
Let Age of Universe be AGE(U)
The chance of this is altho between vaguely unlikely to staggeringly unlikely. The time scale being between AGE(U) to 10^100,00 * AGE(U).

Although even if there is a bubble right now, if its billions of light years away then it will never reach us since the universe will expand faster than that.

## Afghanistan's Geography
Afghanistan has been invaded by the British on 3 separate occasions, by Soviet Union in 1979 and now United States who recently withdrew. In All 3 cases it has been impossible to conquer them. Afghanistan has less people than some US states in a territory smaller than France. So how did History's greatest ever military juggernauts fail to conquer a tiny country barely developed.

### Culture
Afghanistan's borders were almost arbitrarily drawn by foreign powers over time. They are split into 14 tribes the dominant ones of which are Tajiks, Pashtuns (50%) and Uzbeks. These borders mean very less to the people living inside, like say a lot of Pashtuns actually live in adjacent Pakistan.

This border is very difficult to police being extremely mountainous and is largely meaningless to the Pashtun people living there as they frequently travel in both directions. Even the border was until very recently open which has now been Fenced and locked to only 16 entry points down from an earlier some 200+.

### Geography
Getting into Afghanistan is made harder by the fact that it is land locked so the only way to get in is by cooperation from one of; Iran, Turkmenistan, Uzbekistan, Tajikistan, China or Pakistan. What makes it worse is that once across the border, 50% of Afghan land is mountainous with an average elevation of the Hindu Kush mountains > 2000m.

Since over time these mountains not only kept outsiders out but also insiders in the country is largely fragmented tribes with no single national sense of unity. Any sense of unity has always come out only from external invaders. Most of the country is largely autonomous with not much strong hold from the Govt. Afghanistan largely functioned like the holy roman empire where the head of state had de-facto authority but not significant enforceable power over the individual states and princes. Any external authority will face the same problems as the local rulers will have.

### Mountains
Getting control of whole valleys is very easy by getting control of only a few small choke points with very thin complicated roads. During the Soviet attack the Mujahideen would frequently disrupt the transports, destroy the road and quickly flee back into the mountains' caves. For example the whole Khost valley was completely blocked by Mujahideen by capturing only a few key areas and the only way to supply inside was by air.

When the Americans attacked they primarily used the Khyber pass which supported 80% of their and NATO's supplies. The funny thing is that this same 1000s of year old pass was being used by Taliban also to send their people and supplies in just from different exchange points. The taliban also blew up the Khyber Pass once which forced US to also expand their supply lines from other countries.

The Afghan Govt briefly attempted to build a central ring road which connected all of their national centers but it was in tatters over time. By the time US arrived the whole country had less than a total of 50 km of paved roads.


# MAIN STORIES
### How do you like them apples
Apples are not ‘true to seed’, so the seeds from any particular variety apple will not grow to be the same variety as the apple tree they came from. E.g. If you planted seeds of Granny Smith it likely will produce a wide variety of different and unknown apple tree types.

### A Buttload of stuff
A butt is a cask that holds liquids, like a barrel. It could contain anywhere from 108 to 140 gallons (409 to 530 liters), which is indeed a lot. So a 'Buttload' of stuff is indeed a lot of stuff. While not the origin, the term really makes coincidental sense.

### Coolers = Dehumidifier
The modern air conditioner was invented by Willis Carrier not to cool people, but to reduce damaging humidity in a print shop. This also explains why most modern malls also have humidifiers along with centralized air conditioners.

### Political Nintendo
The full name of Nintendo mascot Mario has been widely debated, with many considering it to be Mario Mario. Nintendo CEO Iwata claimed Mario had no last name, which Mario creator Miyamoto agreed with. After Iwata’s passing, Miyamoto changed his stance - the full name was indeed Mario Mario.

### Smaller Than Vatican?
The smallest ‘country’ in the world are actually two buildings with extraterritorial status in Rome represented as the Sovereign Military Order of Malta; the Order has existed for almost a thousand years, they have diplomatic relations with 110 countries and are observers to the UN


# ANALYSIS
### Ain't no center
The solar system has no center. We take the sun to be the center because it is geometrically approximately the center and also offers the most easy to understand model. But in general the laws of physics will be the same even if Jupiter, Moon, Earth or even Pluto are the center.

The traditional model uses gravity and centrifugal forces, neither of which are actual forces. They are pseudo forces created to explain the model which can be created in any other model with no problems. Gravity will still hold as a law because it is not a force but a dip in space-time.

The Kerbal Space Program also as a matter of fact also allows us to switch reference frames when running simulations from sun to any other object in the solar system.