# PRIME STORIES
## How Many Continents
British curriculum in general covers Standard 7; N&S America, EU, Asia, Australia, Africa and Antarctica. Some European schools however bundle N&S America as 1 continent. In Russia and Japan they bundle Asia & EU as 1 conti. In South America both the above bundles are applied to teach only 5 continents. So who's right?

### Large Continuous land bodies
Since Panama and Suez are man made, AfriEurasia, Antarctica, Australia and the America are the only 4 continents by this definition. AfriEurasia contains 86% of the world's population making it a very obviously useless distinction.

### Tectonic Plates
NA, SA, EUAsia, Antarctica, Africa and Australia. But the Aus plate also contains other Asian countries so what to do? This plate is usually called Australinea/Meganesia/Sahul not to be confused with Australasia which is actually the collective name for Australia and its few close countries. 

### Olympics
5 continents. (THESE ARE NOT MAPPINGS, just to count)
Blue = EU, Black = Africa, Red = N&S A, Yellow = Asia, Green = Oceania (Australia, NZ, Micro, Mela and Polynesian Countries)

### The Europe Problem
Europe while looking merely like an extension of Asia is technically very different due to distinct cultures. Armenia for example which is 95%+ Christian identifies as European despite being physically in Asia. Turkey identifies and both Asian and European which causes the line to be forcefully drawn at the Bosporus. 
This line problem is a big problem for Russia which therefore causes them to draw no line at all since if the European Russians claimed to be very culturally different from the Asian Russians then they can ask for independence into the Russian Federation and Siberia. Allegedly.

### Extra Mess
The largest part of Denmark is technically in NA. France's overseas territories belong to multiple continents. Eurovision itself started to be just European but then later added Asian continents, Morocco and even Australia fully giving up on the geographical facade. 


## Allergies
Body has B-Cells which have markers which defend against foreign invaders. There are 5 basic types of anti bodies Ig- A/D/E/G/M. The one responsible for allergies is IgE. When pollen suppose is encountered the body produces a lot of IgE which bind themselves to mast cells, these mast cells contain histamines.
When the body comes across these allergies for the second time, the IgE bind to it and in response Destroy the mast cells which release the trapped histamines causing the extreme allergic reactions.

### Worm Theory
When worms attack a human body, the proteins on the surface of the worms are the ones which IgE binds to and releases the allergic reaction so as to destroy them. As it turns out, these proteins and a lot of allergens for example Birch Pollen looks very similar to Belarzia Worm protein. So a lot of allergic responses are look like they are merely cases of mistaken identity.
This is partly contradicted by studies where Mice with no IgE can still defend against worms and those with more IgE did no better. 

### Expulsion Response
Note that almost every symptom of an allergic reaction is an expulsion response. This is caused to defend against toxins, venom or poison. While hay dust, Peanut, Wheat or Shellfish are themselves not harmful. Fungal Spores that often invade hay dust, aflatoxin which produced by parasitic fungi often contaminate peanuts & grain, paralytic toxins produced by algae which often contaminate shellfish and ofc venom itself. 
If we evolved to defend against these invaders then the carrier proteins is what is targeted therefore peanuts are guilty by association. But what good is anaphylactic shock? The chemicals released by mast cells cause dilation of the peripheral blood vessels, this leads to a peripheral polling of the blood and therefore rapidly lowers blood pressure. This pooling causes the toxin to be pushed away from vital organs to the very edge of the body. 

### Testing the hypothesis
Scientists in 2013 took 3 mice with no IgE, no IgE receptors and no mast cells altogether respectively and injected them with bee venom after they had been exposed to light dose once before (as a partial immunisation). It was seen that all 3 mice did not do well. Where as in another version 2 mice were first injected with Bee Sting and Saline then both with heavy dose of Bee Sting, the one immunised first did much better. It was therefore concluded that evolutionary pressure to keep allergic response is critical. 


# MAIN STORIES
### Homo Longi
Homo Longi are a new species who we shared a common ancestor with 950K years ago and who lived till upto 150K years ago. This would also make them more closely related to us than Neanderthals who were till now thought to be out closest relatives
https://www.eurekalert.org/pub_releases/2021-06/cp-mf061721.php

### 150 years to go
Approximately 0.5 - 1 tons of Titanic's wreck is turning to rust every day. It is expected to collapse entirely within 50 years.

### Slowing down small ships
Ship simulations are done with scale models in scale pools with simulators. But that is not how the real world is because while the model is scaled, gravity is still the same. Something which takes 10s to fall fromm 100m tall ship will not be the same for a 10m tall ship. So the simulation videos are slowed down in time to actually see how the real world will look.

This is also how explosions are simulated in movies. The shot is filmed on scale and slowed down in time to match the actual scale. [AtomicFrontier](https://youtu.be/3N3Bq3lS-wQ?t=376)

### Caodaism
There is a religion in Vietnam called Caodaism. Its followers believe in a single god who sent many prophets. Some of these prophets include Buddha, Confucius, Jesus Christ, Muḥammad, Pericles, Julius Caesar, Joan of Arc, Victor Hugo, and Sun Yat-sen. It even has a Holy See and Pope figure!

# QUICKBITS
> The Kansas University Jayhawks basketball team has only had one coach with a losing record: James Naismith, the inventor of basketball.

> While only 9.7% of Americans don't wear seatbelts, 47% of those who die in car crashes were not wearing seat belts.