# PRIME STORIES
## Greatest Racer of All Time
### Introductions
April 7, 1968 a Formula 2 racing driver was killed in Hockenheim, Germany; sadly one of 127 that year. Jim Clark OBE. 
A radio broadcaster asked the people in California to turn up their headlights as a mark of respect for the driver, the freeways lit up. It was as we shall now see Impossible, for Scottish Jim Clark to die in a car crash. 

### Into Formula 1
Coming formerly from a street car racing background, Colin Chapman signed Clark for Lotus and he won 7/10 '63 GPs thereby winning him his first Formula One Grand Prix. 
A modern F1 driver complaints that there are 21 races a few too many a year. In 1965 Jim Clark did 63 races in a single year, F1, British F2, French F2, Tasman Australian Series, Touring Cars, Indy 500.
**Indy 500**: Jim Clark World Champion F1 was asked to take a rookie Driving test before he competed in the Indy 500. On race weekend he qualified on pole and won by over 2 minutes. 

### Inhuman Skill
Jimmy one time after a series of 10 practice laps at spa came back and said there is something off about the rear of the car. At night the whole car had to be stripped down to find one single tiny bearing which had worn off. His cars after race would, by the standards of race degradations, be pristine.
One year at spa his gearbox started to let go. He drove the rest of the race at 260 km/h in the wet holding one hand on the steering and one hand holding the gear lever in place. And he still won. By almost 5 minutes.
In 1965 after winning both F2 and the Tasman series. He went to F1 with his same '63 car with minor changes. This car was now 3 years old. On the opening race of the season against Graham Hill, Jack Brabhum, John Surtees ('64 champion) he won the race by half a minute while suffering from a slipped disc. IS THIS MAN INHUMAN? (*the hint is in the title*).
In '65 Silverstone towards the end of the race his engine started losing oil pressure. With the leak his car was now under danger of detonating under cornering g forces. Hill was right at his tail. Clark turned off the car at each corner, coasted through the corner, turned it back on, did the rest of the lap. And obviously. Won the race. (*I mean what were you expecting*)

### Closing
On 7th April '68 he had a choice between Brand's Hatch and the one chose: F2 Germany. Due to poor weather conditions and that even the car could not get the tires to heat up. Jim told the crew "Don't expect anything from me today. Just tell me the pit board, where I am and how many laps to go". Those were his last words. 
In the crash the car was in one place and the engine and the gearbox were in another place 35 yards away. He had spun off at 270 km/h at a corner on lap 5 due to a tyre deflation. Jim Clark died instantly off a broken neck.

### Grand Slam
A grand slam in F1 is when a driver qualifies on pole, has fastest lap, leads every lap of the race and then wins. Hamilton has 6. Schumacher 5. Senna 4. Jim Clark has 8 Grand Slams to his name. More than any driver ever. 
Fangio says "Jim Clark was the greatest racing driver ever". All metrics of driver comparison in F1 today are done, assuming Clark is the number one, he will never be beaten. Jim Clark was the best of the best. Jim Clark was the benchmark. 

# MAIN STORIES
### Too Much Man of Steel
Stalin's son Yakov Stalin was captured by the nazis, when Stalin was offered exchange he said "I do not trade field marshals for lieutenants" later he was shot dead in the camp

### Nor-WAY
Norway hires sherpas from Nepal to build paths in the Norwegian mountains. They have completed over 300 projects, and their pay for one summer, equals 30 years of work in Nepal.

### Titanic Doubles
Dick Williams A Titanic Survivor who spent over 6 hours waist deep in freezing water - after rescue doctors wanted to amputate both his legs - he refused and went on to win the Wimbledon Men's Doubles in 1920.

### Sneks catching Snakes
Florida had brought in 2 Irula tribesmen from India to catch the invasive Burmese pythons. When 1000 hunters were able to manage catching just 106 snakes, the duo caught 27 snakes in just 4 weeks, including a 16 ft long female.

### They don't need no Education
In 1995 a policy known as “the Wall" was created. It discouraged info sharing between the CIA and FBI, playing a critical role in the inability to stop 9/11. It got so bad agents played a CD with Pink Floyd's "Another Brick in the Wall" into the phone as they were told their access was denied.

### Religion does not imply Ethics
The number of atheists in america is ~30%. The number of atheists in jail is 0.07%. Atheists cannot be bad by nature. People change churches often because their church does not match their opinions. Implies Morality is independent of religion.

# QUICKBITS
> The closest living relative of whales is the hippopotamus, they split around 40 million years ago