## Istanbul Channel
Istanbul, once a capital of the Romans, Byzantines and Ottomans, today serves as 50% of Turkey's total trade. Istanbul straddles the Bosporus Strait. The only way for Ukraine, S-W Russia, Bulgaria, Romania and Georgia have of getting from the Black Sea to the Agean Sea and then cross either the Suez or Gibraltar.
Another Strategic importance is that Ships which cross into EU from Suez can enter the Bosporus and then enter Danube and pass through 12 countries along the river before it ends up at Rotterdam. Bosporus therefore has much more traffic than even Suez

### Montreax Convention
Allowed Turkey to put militarized ships in the Bosporus straight, outlawed them from ever charging any taxes on passing and allowed the free passage of all civilian ships in time of peace or war. The treaty says that at any given time no more than 9 warships with 15K tonnes total of weight can be in the strait. So Russia just positioned one there permanently which almost always maxes out the tonnage -_-.
To escape soviet pressure they joined NATO :\). Since guns which are of calibre more than 8 inches are banned through the strait, US sent Missile cruisers since missiles aren't technically guns. DAMN BRUH.

### Istanbul Canal
Since the treaty actually applies to the Bosporus strait only, Turkey plans to build a new strait which they can charge taxes for and also distribute some of the Bosporus traffic effectively making Istanbul an island. This will also allow them to send US Aircraft carriers into the Black Sea via that route. The canal is also a part of their 2023 plan which will also include the new Istanbul Airport which when made will be world's largest airport.

## Singapore is a dictatorship
### PAP
Sgp is rules by the People's Action Party for almost 6 consecutive decades now by the Lee family. They are the default and only feasible choice in the elections. For them a 70% win is a good sign and a 60% win is a difficult question about the party's future. Sgp's elections are unlike other east asian countries free from intimidation and tampering.

When first created PAP immediately disappeared or imprisoned any opposition from parties, people or even student activists.

### Elections
Sgp elections are very free indeed but not the least bit fair where PAP can call an election at their own convenience and are largely PM is unstoppable while gerrymandering. In addition parties cannot start campaigning until after an election is called which usually means less than 9-11 days. Over last 50 years that has been a total of 109 days. Via a series of bills the PAP also granted it self to silence any opposition so they can basically bankrupt anybody anytime and call an election anytime anywhere.

### Pressure
Since no other way exists, in sgp people show their protest by actually not voting for the ruling party. Which tends to generally not look very good. So as a result the PAP basically said that those who vote for them will get priority housing and maintenance etc.


# MAIN STORIES
### Chernobyl Clarifications
The explosion that led to the Chernobyl nuclear accident was chemical, driven by gases and steam generated by the core runaway, not by nuclear reactions. No commercial nuclear reactor contains a high enough concentration of U-235 or plutonium to cause a nuclear explosion.

### CRISPR creates superbug invincible to all viruses
All life on Earth follows this rule: a combination of 64 DNA triplet codes, or “codons,” are translated into 20 amino acid. Why wouldn’t 64 dedicated codons make 64 amino acids? The reason is redundancy. Life evolved so that multiple codons often make the same amino acid. We can use these redundant codons to do programming
A team at the UCambridge recently used CRISPR to replace >18,000 codons with synthetic amino acids. The result is a bacteria that’s virtually resistant to all viral infections—because it lacks the normal protein “door handles” that viruses need to infect the cell [*SingularityHub*](https://singularityhub.com/2021/06/08/scientists-used-crispr-to-engineer-a-new-superbug-thats-invincible-to-all-viruses/)

### Landing on Sand
Barra Airport in GB has the world's only runway on the sand. It disappears 2 times a day under water and going from plane to out of the airstrip is usually under so much water that the car is by definition driving in a flood.

### Joint Silver-Bronze
In the 1936 Olympics two Japanese pole vaulters (Shuhei Nashida & Sueo Oe) tied for second. Declined to compete against each other, Nashida was awarded silver and Oe bronze. On return to Japan they had the medals cut in two & joined together to make two 'friendship medals' out of silver & bronze

### Direct Condensation
24 hours around the clock, with no energy input, even under the blazing sun. Specially coated glass pane, reflects sun and also radiates its own heat through away. Thus cools itself down to as much as 15&deg;C below the ambient temperature.
The new method can produce >2x as much water/area/day as the best current passive methods. Under ideal conditions, they could harvest up to 0.53 decilitres of water/m²/h very close to the maximum 0.6. [Ethz](https://ethz.ch/en/news-and-events/eth-news/news/2021/06/harvesting-drinking-water-from-humidity.html)

### Double First Lady
Graça Machel was married to the President of Mozambique until he died in a plane crash, she later married Nelson Mandela while he was President of South Africa. She is the only person in modern history to be First Lady of two different countries.

### Nashedis Across Species
When a male fruit fly is sexually rejected by a female fruit fly, it will seek out more alcohol than those that have successfully mated. [BBC](https://www.bbc.com/news/science-environment-17357560)

### Upside Down
Upside-down rainbows exist; they are named circumzenithal arcs and are considered halos. Arcs are caused by the refraction of sunlight through ice crystals, generally in cirrus or cirrosts clouds, rather than from raindrops like regular rainbows.

### The Swiss are Weird
When a plane was hijacked over Switzerland in 2014, the neighboring countries of Italy and France had to send their own fighter jets to the scene because the incident happened outside of the Swiss Air Force's business hours, and even hijackings weren't important enough to pay for overtime. [Guardian](https://www.theguardian.com/world/shortcuts/2014/feb/19/swiss-air-force-ethiopian-airlines-hijacking-office-hours)