---
layout: 'layout:post'
---

Yugoslavia was described by its own presidents as 1 country with 2 alphabets, 3 languages, 4 religions, 5 nationalities, 6 republics surrounded by 7 neighbours and with 8 ethnic minorities. The breaking of Yugoslavia was largely overshadowed by the protests in China and the breaking of USSR but its effects can be seen till today in the gap in EU or the locally low HDI.

## Creation
Yugoslavia started as an idea, it was always ruled by external powers like the Ottoman Empire and the Austro-Hungarian Empire. They however were the Slavic people with their own distinct identities. Serbia and Montenegro (MNE) while were indpendent from much before from the Ottoman Empire, the rest of to be Yugoslavia was still under Austro Hungarian Empire.

In WW1 even Serbia & MNE were taken over by the A-H Empire. So after fleeing to UK, the representatives from Serbia, Croatia, Vovjvodina & Bosnia-Herzegovina came together to decide to create the Kingdom of Slovenes, Croats and Serbs. The Allies were in favour of breaking the AH Empire and therefore agreed. Chezhia & Slovakia soon declared their own independence and riots started in Vienna & Budapest the Austrian & Hungarian Parts respectively. Soon The countries were united & the Kingdom was formed. Over time a few more small bulgarian territories and a couple more small regions were added. Finally with Jug = South, Slaveni = Slavs they decided to become Kingdom of Yugoslavia.

## Post WW2
In WW2 when Hitler & the Soviets arrived at their door. While the government of Yugoslavia surrendered. The people did not. With only minor support from the Allies, the people of Yugoslavia managed to single handedly do the impossible. The Kicked Hitler out by '45 and created the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. They then gave their own flag a 1 star review and changed it. The 3 founding principles were
- All ethnic minorities were recognized as equal
- The state was deemed Socialist
- The country was made up of 6 regions each with large amount of Autonomy namely
- - Slovenia
- - Bosnia-Herzegovina
- - Serbia
- - Montenegro
- - Croatia
- - Macedonia
- - The regions of Vovjvodina and Kosovo were recognized as autonomous while being part of Serbia

### Governance
After disagreement on relations with USSR, Yugoslavia started distancing itself from USSR. They then decided to hand over more and more power to the individual estates from the center. The individual republics then had more control on their economies, more control on governance and their own individual local armies. After WW2, a man by the name of Joseph Brotz Tito took control of the central govt and kept power until death. He was the driving force which kept the nation stable. This is slightly problematic

When a king dies his position can by filled by an heir but the position of the monarch remains. Or if a president or PM dies it can be filled by someone else but again the position remains. In Yugoslavia, there was no position, it was Tito. And if there is no position then none can be filled. So then in '80 after Tito, the presidency was split into 8 parts for each republic and 2 individual regions all sharing 1/8th of the power with decisions being made with a majority. This often led to conflicting interest and the eventual destabilisation of the country.

## Economy
While China & USSR were strictly ruled by communist ideals, they lost millions and millions of people due to famines and industrialisation each the Yugoslavs did not. This was because the slavs did not let a political ideology get in the way of smart economic decisions, in decisions often if it proved that their citizens would all have a better standard of living then Yugolavia would happily throw out ideology to preserve smart economics.

So while initially they were very centrally dominated, they eventually started giving more and more demand and supply control to individual people since experts of the fields will know how to deal in the substance much better than some distant beurocrat. So here in stark contrast to Hong Kong (or maybe even UK) which under went socialisation from a extreme capitalist system, we see Yugoslavia which underwent capitalisation from an extreme socialist system.

**Where it went wrong?**: Normally a system like Yugoslavia would do very well where it was decentralized, run by workers and no shareholders and the decision making power for demand and supply stayed with the company. What happneed in Yugoslavia was workers started appointing management boards who run the company on behalf of them. So instead of voting on decisions they voted on who would represent them. The way it worked was to get on a board you need employee votes, but you get votes if you promise something good. To a worker all it matters is his wages go up, so was promised and so it did. So far so good. But

The problem is that raising wages in a feedback loop causes the company to run out of resources since it has a limited amount of money. So rather than reducing wages here. The companies increased prices since the development optimizations were far outpaced by the rate of increase of salaries. So the WHOLE COUNTRY suddenly saw a price increase in a very short span. *You know where this is going don't you :p*. This price increase in turn negeated the wage increase the workers had since everything became uniformly expensive. And gentlemen we have ourselves a feedback loop of hyperinflation.

### Post Cold War
All this inflation started making companies rapidly bankrupt. So the govt started stepping in and bailing out the companies at the cost of a poor man. *HOLY SHIT DID WE JUST SEE GOVT BAILING OUT COMPANIES IN A SOCIALIST SYSTEM! IN YOUR FACE MARX*.

Ok so now the problem was that during cold war, Yugoslavia was bang in the middle of the capitalist west and the socialist east. And both of them were pumping money into Yugoslavia to join their side, or at least NOT join the other. This however stopped with the end of cold war. And since the economic stability of the country was declining rapidly no one would even give them money. So Yugoslavia decided to go to IMF. The IMF laid the following conditions such that the economy could be reformed to be able to pay the load
- Cut Spending
- Allow private businesses not run by workers unions to enter the country
- Restructure Poverty Market + more stuff

### Conflicts
One problem with the new economic changes was that Yugoslavia was very unequal internally. The average Slovene was 6 times richer than the average Kosovan. Such that
- Kosovo ~ 2000
- Bosnia ~ 4000
- Montene ~ 4200
- Macedon ~ 6000
- Serbia ~ 6200
- Croatia ~ 8000
- Slovenia ~ 12000

This basically made Slovenia at par with Israel and Ireland but Kosovo at par with Sudan and Papua new Guinea. Naturally the richer countries with the more efficient govts said that the poor govts should take the brunt of the responsibility since they put less money into people products and more into propoganda products. The poor nations argued that it should be shared equally amonst all.

## Ethinicity
Yugoslavia had many different ethnic groups living within its border. The several officially recognized ethnic groups they were the Serbs, Slovenes, Croats, Macedonians, Montenegrans and later recognized bosnian muslims as well. And being recognized as an official ethnicity came with certain rights:
- You were allowed to openly express your religion
- you would receive free. education in the dominant language of your ethnicity
- You were given your own ethnic republic

### Serbia
When the borders of the Yugoslav republics were drawn after WW2 they closely corresponded to where the different ethnicities lived. But this system failed over time because people tend to move around to other places and by the 1980s the ethnicities were a lot more spread out. At the same time there were ethnicities which weren't officially recognized, a prominent example were the Albanians who lived in kosovo they were a larger ethnic group than the Macedonians or Montenegrans. Yet unrecognized as an official ethnic group, so they often felt like second-class citizens in their own country resulting in protests in the 80s which were put down by the military. By the late 1980s politicians exploited the ever-growing ethnic tensions for their own gain, because in 1989 serbia got a new leader (Slobodan Miosevic). Under his leadership Serbia's government envisioned a greater serbia where he eventually started controlling 4 out of 8 states and blocked any resolution which was not explicitly in his favour.

Finally Slovenia and Croatia got pissed and left. The Yugoslav constitution gave the right for a republic to leave should they hold a reffurendum and pass which both here did. When this happened greater serbia then fiannced a revolution in the Crotatia in the 90s by convincing the people that the serbs there will be persecuted thereby starting the Yugoslav wars. Same was attempted in Slovenia but that was furthur away so European Community (pre-EU) quickly negociated peace. Bosnia and Macedonia will later hold their own referrendums and gain independence of which Serbia invaded even Bosnia. Croatia now lost with 1/4th of its territory sent its forces to Bosnia to support the Bosnians.

## Breaking
With Bosnia, Macedonia, Croatia and Serbia now independent, greater serbia formed its own Federal Republic of Yugoslavia dropping the Socialist from its name. From '92-'95 more than 200K people died, many commited war crimes, filled mass graves and commited genocides. At this point the other countries had to start stepping in to help out. Western Europe and USA.

When European Commission failed to negociate peace for Bosnia and Croatia, NATO was called for help. NATO and UN then established no fly zones, made safe places for refugees to flee to and formed rehabilitation zones. NATO then started bombing the Serbian held zones and forced Serbia into sueing for peace. In Nov '95 the war ended with Dayton Peace Accords. Under this, 60K NATO troops would be stationed there to maintain peace. Bosnia would become a seperate republic with Bosnian Muslims and Serbians. Serbia was allowed to keep Kosovo (Which would later declare independence in 08).

Serbia and Montenegro also slowly started drifting apart and in 2006 montenegro held a referrendum and became independent. But post all this the war crimes didn't go unpunished with the establishment of a Tribunal i.e International Tribunal for the Prosecution of Persons responsible for Serious Violations of International Humanitarian Law Committed in the Territory of the Former Yugoslavia since 1991 or simply the International Criminal Tribunal of Former Yugoslavia.

After the last of these trials Yugoslavia ceased to exist in 2007 and there was completely broken apart.