---
layout: 'layout:post'
---

Switzerland has been un-invaded for centuries now. Its not that no one can invade them impossibly, its probably possible but only at ultra high damage to the invaders.

The primary advantage of the country is their geography. In the north they have the Jura Mountains, the south the Swiss Alps. And in the centre the swiss plateau with rolling hills and windy roads where most of their population lives.

## Defence
Switzerland in interest of being completely defensive has a primary line of defence as 3000 bombs on every single one of the roads, bridges and viaducts that lead into the country. Any and all infrastructure that gives access to the country is rigged. This even includes mountains which can be used to cause landslides which can block off entire areas due to lack of roads.

Swizz despite not being actively involved in military conflicts are actually very good at fighting as can been seen in their history from the Old Zurich War, Battles of Morgarten/Sempach or Arbedo etc. In fact very long ago other countries used to hire swiss soldiers to fight for them which however was stopped when the swizz later lost a war against France a few centuries ago.

Switzerland at any given time can mobilize and army of 800,000 people within 72 hours. Its very popular saying that goes

> Switzerland doesn't have an army. Switzerland IS an army.

The statement refers to the fact that every single person who was in the army till 2007 has kept their uniform, assault rifle and ammunition. EVERYONE. And Switzerland has mandatory conscription for 170 days at least for every single swiss male. So at any given time if there is a war people can basically jump into uniform and go right to action.

## Geographic Games
Switzerland in fact has aircrafts stored inside their mountains. So if an enemy enters the airspace they can release always ready F-18 Hornets FROM INSIDE THE MOUNTAIN. And the locations to these mountains are largely not know, we even know they exist since swiss people have referred to it on social media which however they promptly deleted very soon on request.

The strategy of the military has always been to in an invasion abandon the plateau and move into the alps where they can attack from Fortified positions inside the mountains with 26000 bunkers, anti-air guns, anti-tank guns and machine gun nests.

Should any tanks get past the bombs protecting the city's entry points, first of all well done. Second they will have to deal with Tank Traps. In the French speaking side of Switzerland there are very very very very long rows of huge concrete blocks specifically designed to keep tanks out. Its not a wall since humans can pass through, but tanks can't. And now if tanks try to get over these then around the country there are buildings which are designed like houses from the outside but are actually bunkers which have canons inside them. And all these canons are aimed not the the head but the belly of the tank i.e the least armoured part.

### Bunkers
Switzerland also has a SHIT TONNE of bunkers. Back when War Machine was taking over all of Europe in the 40s the swiss realised that should there be an attack they need somewhere to retrieve to since most of their population lives on easily manoeuvrable flat terrain which is usually bad in war time. So they build bunkers, a ridiculously large amount of them. Today a lot of these bunkers are used as hotels, storage for cheese and even server rooms since its cold and secure.

The country has a total capacity of 115% of its population the capacity for nuclear fallout shelters (as of 2019) which means they can deal with even a large refugee influx and still be fine.

Other than the mountains every single house has a bunker underneath it also. The country required it by law that from 1978 any new houses built need to be able to withstand a 12 MT blast from 700m away. The law in recent days however has been changed to say that they should either have one or have access to one. Which basically means that if a community center or a public building close by has a safe place that is also good.

ALl this stuff basically literally sounds like its from a James Bond movie. Swizz people are awesome lol.

At one time during the swiss also threatened to poison the entire course of the Rhine river which starts in switzerland should Germany try to invade them and poison all of Germany's water and that eventually ends in Netherlands. It was even poisoned once in the 80s but that was considered largely an accident, however people also speculate it to be a warning.

## Politics
As a result of being Bang in the centre of all of Europe, the surrounding countries decided it will be a fairly solid idea to have one country as a buffer zone in the middle before another empire start so as to avoid constant conflicts on the boundary.

They are not even part of EU or NATO and joined the UN only in 2002. They haven't even fought a single war in over 200 years, the last one being against Napoleon in 1815.

During WW2 it is said that Hitler had a full plan to invade Switzerland but he chose not to since it would have cost him too many resources which at this time were critical and which he would much rather save post the defeat from the russian side. He instead opted to trade with switzerland in foreign currency in exchange for gold, since Swizz people exchange gold without you having to prove its origin. So the Germans basically sent all the gold they accumulated as loot and had it changed for currency.

Switzerland stayed neutral through all of every single event including the Schaffhausen city bombing by the allies which they claimed as a mistake. They even shot down planes from both allies and axis powers both alike with no exceptions and asked both of them to respect its neutrality and stay out of airspace.

In WW2 while the german speaking and french speaking sides of germany had slight tensions between them the whole country as a block did not change its stance on neutrality. So much so that in 1920 after joining the league of nations, Geneva immediately became the new headquarters of the league. In 1937 anticipating another war, Switzerland withdrew from the League of Nations in order to maintain their stance of unbiased neutrality and stayed out of any such coalition through all of WW2 & Cold war till 2002. In '37 they also issued a recommendation for their citizens to maintain a minimum of 2 months of continuous rations at all times.

Switzerland traded with other countries for money and currency and gave them weapons and other resources at credit which they later even exchanged for much needed coal or food.

While the swizz remain metal about staying neutral they aren't as rigid as before. In 2014 the military had said that they have removed all bombs from their infrastructure. The bunkers and tank traps however stay because they might as well be. Switzerland is still the most unconquerable nation on Earth. So even in event of a nuclear wipeout, the only people surviving will be heads of states, cockroaches and 8.4M swizz citizens.

## Economics
In WW2 switzerland had briefly chosen to mobilise an army to defend itself. This immediate mobilisation cost it a lot of money. As a result of which while local industry which made weapons and watches and all had a large amount of benefit to them (furthur added to by selling resources to other countries around), the country as a whole went on a slight economic downturn.

Switzerland had chosen to finance the war by issueing more currency, this caused a lot of inflation causing internal tensions in the country. The Swiss feared a Bolsheviks style revolution and so the govt immediately sent in their most loyal military men to arrest the leaders of the revolution in 1918 and it was contained within 3 days. This however coincided with the 1920 Spanish Influenza Pandemic and together with both a lot of lives were lost. This caused the whole country to harbour a slight resentment against working class people.

As of 2020: Switzerland has the 2nd highest human development index (0.955) behind only Norway, 3rd Highest in Corruption Perceptions Index behind Denmark-NewZealand, Singapore-Finland and Shared with Sweden. They have the Highest Gill rank No 1 i.e Lowest Gender Inequality. Finally the country is 6th overall in the Social Progress Index only behind Nordics and New Zealand.

## ICRC
The ICRC Red Cross flag in fact was citied to be a reversal of the Swiss flag both citing its home ground and its complementary nature to the country.

During the Russo-Turkish War from 1876 to 1878, the Ottoman Empire used a Red Crescent instead of the Red Cross because its government believed that the cross would alienate its Muslim soldiers. When asked by the ICRC in 1877, Russia committed to fully respect the sanctity of all persons and facilities bearing the Red Crescent symbol, followed by a similar commitment from the Ottoman government to respect the Red Cross. From its official recognition to today, the Red Crescent became the organizational emblem of nearly every national society in countries with majority Muslim populations. The national societies of some countries such as Pakistan (1974), Malaysia (1975), or Bangladesh (1989) have officially changed their name and emblem from the Red Cross to the Red Crescent. The Red Crescent is used by 33 of the 190 recognized societies worldwide.

We therefore now have International Red Cross and Red Crescent. (The Red Crystal was later adopted in 2005 but is not in the name, it largely serves to allow combinations)

# Random Side Facts

### The Swiss are Weird
When a plane was hijacked over Switzerland in 2014, the neighboring countries of Italy and France had to send their own fighter jets to the scene because the incident happened outside of the Swiss Air Force's business hours, and even hijackings weren't important enough to pay for overtime. [Guardian](https://www.theguardian.com/world/shortcuts/2014/feb/19/swiss-air-force-ethiopian-airlines-hijacking-office-hours)