---
layout: 'layout:post'
---

Of the 8 Largest Economies in the world, 5: USA, China, UK, India & France are all nuclear states. A further two Germany & Italy, host America's weapons. The only one on this list with no nukes is number 3. Japan. Japan is not only opposed to Nuclear War but War in general. If Taiwan (23M troops) is taken as a part of China then in all of East Asia, they have the smallest number of standing troops (125M). When even the paramilitary is included then Japan is 1/6th of the next closest East Asian country (S Korea).

## Money
When compared by defence expenditure. In all of East Asia, from 1994 to 2020, Japan's share of total defence expenditure has fallen EVERY SINGLE YEAR, from around 40% to less than 10%. An argument could be that China's has increased but a counter argvument to this is, South Korea and & Russia have managed to roughly maintain their share, but not Japan.

Usually money is a reliable way to see how well a country is doing in terms of Defence. By that metric being 9th in top 10 Japan is not doing badly. But the true picture becomes immediately clear when details are examined, roughly 45% of their annual defence budget goes into maintainace, 50% of which is Purely repair. Japan being extremely prone to earthquakes and tsunamis, it takes up a lot of their defence budget.

Japan also has a national policy to not sell defence hardware to any country, under any circumstances. The only one other customer the defence companies have is a solid pacifist (Japan itself). While in US Lockheed and Douglas, MINT money from defence, in Japan of the top 10 largest defence contractors only 3 make &gt;3% of their revenue from defence and &lt;10%.

*Update*: While as of 2014 they have lifted this policy, they are still not doing well since while equipment is of high quality it is also very expensive and is limited for strictly defencive purposes.

## People
Japan also lacks the people to make up a strong military, first their people are old, second the replacement rate is 1.3. The replacement rate for China fell below 2.1 in 1991, for Russia in 81 and for Vietnam in 99. For Japan this was far before in the 60s.

Japan's population is ageing so fast that they are not able to find people for the army. Since corporations are offering both better jobs and pay, the govt is not able to compete with the full force of the free market. So in 2018 they increased their enrolment max age from 26 to 32, making their average military age 35 a full 10 years more than the other east asian countries.

Unlike other east asian countries, Japan also does not have a mandatory drafting law i.e conscription does not exist. This makes it extra difficult for them to get people.

## Nukes
It is not really necessary for any country to actually have nukes if they can hypothetically demonstrate the deterrence it causes. As in case of US say for instance after the first few, in the marginal utility of each nuke is virtually 0 if not negative. Japan's position right now is that while they may not have nukes, they can very easily acquire them. Specially given that Uranium enrichment from 0 to powerplant is the same effort as power plan to bomb, despite being very large difference in numbers.

Japan has very large and well performing nuclear reactors all of which create an image where someone in the general public on a blind guess would expect them to have nukes. Japan has tried to actually acquire nukes on 3 separate occasions

- in 1930s when China was testing theirs
- after Cold War as they allied with US in response to the looming Soviet threat
- most recently just after NK got nukes

So far every study since has concluded that Japan does not need nukes. But yet they stay close. After burning the nuclear fuel in the reactor most countries do a direct disposal, Japan on the other hand reprocesses this fuel and extracts Uranium & Plutonium from it. Their argument is that it is for maintaining self dependence as it keeps them free of depending on other countries. Japan however has the 5th largest stockpile of Plutonium OF ANY COUNTRY. Reprocessing this fuel actually gives back Enriched U & Pu, which makes sure that at any given time Japan is less than 6 months away from actually building a nuclear bomb.

In the wake of Fukushima, a politician even argued against shutting down other reactors since it would hinder their "Technical Deterrance". Japan it seems has all the benefits of having a nuke but none of the costs. It has deterrence but no actual bombs. They use their position in Limbo very effectively, they don't endore nukes or even the military for that matter ("Self Defence" Forces) but yet they don't sign the nuclear non proliferation treaty either.

## Post War
When post war treaties were being signed after the unconditional surrender or Japan. US had an interesting challenge, to put an Abstract concept like peace, into words. They had to engrain a nation with pacifism in its culture. Critically then General McArthur (the same Tokyo Tribunal dude) asked for a few important clauses.

- The country was to never engage in war and continuously rely on others for the protection of its existence which was finally adopted as a more 'ambiguous' statement.
> the Japanese people forever renounce war as a sovereign right of the nation...()...land, sea and air forces as well as other war potential will never be maintained.

This entire article was worded very specifically to smartly leave out the words self defence. As soon as the CPC came to power in China and the Korean War started, as a pretext of threat from communism (which btw is not real its a shite economic system and can't take over the world) the USA quickly got Japan to form a small battalion of 75K people as the 'National Police Reserve', these people were constitutionally legal since they didn't interfere with any external affairs and were present for internal security and defence only.

This NPR started accumulating the left behind american tanks and such and labelling them with Euphemisms like Special Vehicles in order to keep the attention away from the fact that they were military in nature. This NPR later became the National Safety Force and then the now familiar Self Defence Force. Although however much Japan tries to stretch the limits they are just that, Limited and therefore cannot do something like what NK and USA can. The method to Overrule Article 9 is to get 3 majorities, in
- House of Councillors
- House of Representatives
- Public Referendum

None of these three have been simultaneously achieved in the 74 years of its existence. In fact as a result Japan is the world's oldest un-amended constitution. It seems in the short term impossible for Japan to ever achieve this goal since not just legally but even culturally they have adopted pacifism as a national sentiment in order to justify the Napalm Bombings, The Atomic Bombs and the war suffering in WW2. They also believe that this pacifism is what allowed them to see what post war was an ASTRONOMICAL growth. Today however the memory of war has faded as a social intersubjective story and what remains in the way is only education.

## Culture
The Japanese Teacher's Association (Nikkyosso) while dwindling still has enough clout to resist any changes to the curriculum and keep pacifism as a norm. Every student while studying has at least once visited the dozens of peace museums in all of Japan. They have even issued a counter stance to any grants which are of dual use i.e Academic AND Military Research. This is in stark contrast to china where there is basically no line between the two kinds of research since the state owns everything and often bullys the education institutes into doing things per their will with very little 'freedom' in research existing.

Polls in Japan show an interesting trend. Their culture is not completely pacifist but a little more complicated (125M people afterall). When asked if going to war IF attacked is legitimate then >50% people agree to it with the rest approximately half and half not decided and no. But when asked on their willingness to fight Japan is less than 20%, which is less than a third of comparable countries around like Korea and China.

## US in Japan
More than 170K US troops are abroad, more than 60K of which are in Japan (the highest of any country). The US also has its only forward deployed aircraft carriers overseas in Japan, the USS Ronald Regan. Japanese also have the most official/officially working and state visits to Japan ~30-35 more than any other country.

Japan however has a complicated one sided relationship with US since WW2. While US is the closest ally of Japan the reverse may not necessarily be true. Because of WW2 treaty Japan has to rely on America for defence in exchange for military bases and protection. While this was happening over time Japan kept getting richer and richer and eventually decided to give America money over and above what was in the treaty. This is what Japan calls their "Sympathy Budget" and America "HostNation Support". They made new facilities, paid the utilities covered employee salaries etc.

In exchange for this Japan asked for its own benefits like asking to stay out of Iraq qar despite explicitly being told by US to assist. They were then caught selling military equipment from Toshiba to Soviets. To prevent being seen as a bad ally these Sympathy Budgets were formalized into "Special Measure Agreements", basically contracts: which would be renegotiated every 5 years. Between 1978 to 2018 then Japan paid ~65B$ for American forces in Japan with a close to 17% increase per year.

Japan claims it shoulders 86% of all costs of US in Japan, Pentagon itself puts this number at 74% in both cases higher than any other country. This however does not include several assets like Indirect Subsidies, Surrounding Infra costs, Waived Taxes/Fees, Land & Potential Infra rent etc. Japan is however in a quandry. They are stuck between basic militarisation which is helping their allies in interest of local self defence, a law so basic it is provided in the UN charter and the other side being the ULTRA pacifist public. In 2018 Shinzo Abe passed this basic law resolution and paid dearly as his approval ratings fell by ~40% in one day and more than 300 protests were organized in the country.

### Gulf
When in the gulf war America called Japan for help they were not willing to go. In fact the public was so opposed that only 33% of people were in favor of sending troops that too with one hilarious condition. That they not be armed. Even then despite sending only 6 minsweeping wooden ships they were met with resistance at home. Japan then decided to put money, 20% of the whole cost of the entire gulf war. Just short of the cost from Saudi & Kuwait themselves.

Japan however didn't need to put this money since victory in the gulf was easy but needed to assist because it was asked to. In case of this it was accused of textbook diplomacy and it didn't sit well with the public. So less than 10 years later Japan passed rules which allowed them some leeway and let them get ready within less than 45 minutes of 9/11 i.e before the 3rd plane even crashed into the Pentagon.

## Militarization
Their militarisation was however limited to 2000 troops only that too explicitly for UN PKOs. With 5 other conditions

- A CEASE-FIRE AGREEMENT AMONG PARTIES OF THE CONFLICT IN PLACE
- THE CONSENT OF ALL PARTIES TO THE CONFLICT TO PKO DEPLOYMENT AND JAPAN'S PARTICIPATION
- THE STRICT IMPARTIALITY OF THE PEACEKEEPING MISSION
- THE WITHDRAWAL OF JAPAN'S SDF IF ANY OF THE ABOVE REQUIREMENTS ARE BROKEN
- THE USE OF WEAPONS ONLY FOR THE SDF'S DEFENSE

Japanese troops cannot do infantry tasks like collecting weapons and can operate in safe locations only. The other countries often call this babysitting as they have to assist Japan everywhere it goes due to its nature. No Japanese has ever died overseas since they enter only after bullets stop and leave at the earliest sign of crisis. They often act as a liability to the other countries in such a way since even a single death would trigger a national outcry in Japan.

Japan however with this middle ground solution manages to please both the people and US.