---
layout: 'layout:post'
---

The problem as in any empire started on the very edge of it.

## Start of Revolt
The first was Poland where the people protested for the right to form trade unions. So now due to the new found freedoms the new political party (Polish United Workers' Party) which advocated for trade unions fought the election along side other similar parties and won the election  on 19 August 1989 giving them the first non communist govt.

The most important thing that the Soviet Union did during this Polish revolution, however, was **nothing**. This wasn't the first time a Soviet satellite state underwent a revolution. In the past in 1953 the East German revolution was stopped and in 1956 the Hungarian revolution was BRUTALLY suppressed. In 1968 USSR along with some warsaw pact countries even invaded Czechoslovakia because they were becoming "too liberal".

Seeing that the soviets didn't do anything. The most liberal of the communist states, Hungry then decided to also leave. The people generally had 3 demands
- Establishment of a constitutional court
- Overhaul of the legal code
- Free elections

The Hungarians then decided to create an opening in the border between Communist Hungary and Capitalist Austria therefore making a hole in the Iron Curtain. For the first time in decades, people could now move relatively freely between the communist east and the capitalist west.

Many people then decided to go from East Germany &rarr; Austria &rarr; West Germany. East Germany (GDR) found this outflux of 3.5M people to WestDe troubling. The germans then decided to build a full Berlin Wall, closing the berlin borders to both the capitalist and the communist side. The people showed up to protest in droves. The East Germans expected the Soviet army to show up but nothing came. So, eventually, to appease the protesters, the borders were decided to be opened again and the GDR decided to let people travel to West Berlin directly

On 9 November 6PM announcement for this was made but was however, botched, rather than saying "in a few months" the people heart "immediately". So the people started showing up to the checkpoint in droves.

Timeline
9th November 1989, 6PM: In announcement no VVS b2-937/89 East Germany announces opening (LATER)
9th November 1989, 7PM: Journalists rush out of the room to inform the public
9th November 1989, 7:04PM: The bulletin for the announcement is issued first by dpa Gmbh
9th November 1989, 10:45M: Harald Jäger, commander of the BornholmerStraße border crossing starts letting some people through
9th November 1989, 11:30PM: Harald Jäger stops checking ID & calls his superior to say he's opening all gates
9th November 1989, 12:00PM: All gates are overrun, people have started breaking the concrete.

The Berlin Wall Falls.

Within the next 7 months, Checkpoint Charlie will be lifted. With the fall of the wall, the process of German reunification was about to start when both govts decided that. Germany. Will. Be. United. Forever.
## Post Berlin Wall
### Czechoslovakia
November 17th, 1989 - Student arrive to protest, but are suppressed by riot police
November 18th, 1989 - 200,000 people arrive
November 20th, 1989 - Half a million people arrive
November 24th, 1989 - The communist leadership of Czechoslovakia resigns
November 28th, 1989 - Govt announces elections will be conducted and all barbed wire will be taken down

June 1990 - They hold the first democratic elections
June 1991 - Soviet Troops leave Czechoslovakia never to return

### Bulgaria and Romania
Demonstrations in Bulgaria first started in October, but were suppressed. But the Bulgarian leadership had seen the direction of the tide of history. Before massive protests erupt, the Bulgarian Politburo decided to oust their leader immediately after Berlin Wall fell. He was replaced with a more liberal communist and repealed restrictions on free speech and assembly. But rather than preventing more protests, it led to the first mass demonstration on November 17th, 1989 (same time as Czechoslovakia).

These movements demanded more freedoms, such as allowing multiple parties into govt. In 1990, Negotiations were held and then soon elections. The ruling Communist Party abandoned Marxist-Leninism, renamed itself the Bulgarian Socialist Party and won the next election. Finally in Romania, unlike other socialist states, the leader of Romania, a man named Nicolaj Ceausescu, did not want to give up power.

He appeared to want to wait until the anti-communist uprisings were over and he could continue ruling Romania. As with many protests, it started over something relatively small. A Hungarian Calvinist minister was arrested by the Romanian secret police on December 16th, 1989. Because his sermons offended the regime. Ceausescu was in Iran at the time and on return, he ordered a mass rallies in his support on December 21st. Here he addressed a crowd of 100,000 people where he espoused the achievements of the Socialist Revolution. But only 2 minutes into his speech, people started chanting the name of the city in which this Hungarian minister was arrested. Ceausescu raised his right hand to silence the crowd.

There is on record his stunned expression on someone realizing, that a revolution was unfolding against him, right in front of his eyes. The hand tactic which had worked during his entire regime, but not this time. The people kept chanting. Within 9 days, Ceausescu was captured, put on a mock trial and was sentenced to death on Christmas day, December 25th 1989

## Soviet Union
With the warsaw pact countries now gone. We turn to the soviet union whose roots would be turned up in 1990. It started with the Soviet Union allowing mostly free elections where people could vote for multiple parties, rather than only the communist parties, "to better reflect the will of the people." What happened instead was that most people who were unhappy voted en masse for independence movements.

Lithuania almost immediately replaced their current leaders and voted to leave the USSR. Rather than send in the troops, the USSR applied an economic embargo on Lithuania. The Red Army didn't intervene but they didn't leave either. Armenia, Estonia, Georgia, Latvia and Moldova immidiately followed. Looking that the USSR didn't do anything, all countries slowly started staging rebellions and they grew by the day.

Ukraine erupted in peaceful protests in the beginning of 1990, while the govt did oblige the local population such as decriminalizing certain religious practices. In their elections people voted for new democratic parties. Tensions slowly arose with the Soviet leadership. As Ukraine recalled, all of its soldiers fighting in Soviet conflicts declared its economic sovereignty and declared its goal of independence, among many other things. While not officially independent, they were clearly on track to do so.

Looking at the fringes collapsing the USSR started a 500 Days Program. This was an economic idea designed to show that the soviet way worked, it would do privatization and de-centralization. And to make sure that the people felt that they had a say in the matter, the Soviet Union decided to ask its people if this was what they wanted. They held a nationwide referendum on March 17th, 1991. The referendum asked people,

> Do you consider it necessary to preserve the Union of Soviet Socialist Republic as a renewed federation of equal sovereign republics, which will fully guarantee the rights and freedoms of all nationalities.

While the referendum was boycotted in some regions, almost 150 million people showed up to vote. Over 75% of people voted in favor of turning the Soviet Union into a federation. This wasn't the only referendum taking place that day. Russia, added a question about whether they wanted to have a president representing the Russian part of the Soviet Union. The Russian people agreed and in June 1991, Boris Yeltsin became the first president of Russia.

By now, the Soviet Union was facing separatism across the nation and was ready to hand over power to the various regions of the USSR. And this was going to go into effect on August 20th with the signing of the new Union Treaty, which would turn the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics into the Union of Sovereign States. This would hopefully keep the Union together. But there were those in govt who didn't like this. From the defense minister to the vice president to the head of the Soviet secret police. They wanted the iron fist back

So in an internal coup to remove Gorbachev, they put him under house arrest on vacation. The coup organizers expected massive popular support from the people, expecting to be held as saviors of the USSR. And people did come out in droves, but rather than supporting, they tried to stop it. When tanks drove towards the Russian parliament building, people surrounded the tanks, creating a human barricade, until the tanks could no longer move without crushing the very people whose support they needed.

## Post Coup
2 days later after a clear failure of the coup, most people across the USSR no longer favoured its style of government. Therefore

1. 20th August 1990, Estonia declares Independence
2. 21th August 1990, Latvia declares Independence
3. 24th August 1990, Ukraine declares Independence
4. 25th August 1990, Belarus declares Independence
5. 27th August 1990, Moldova declares Independence
6. 31st August 1990, Kyrgyzstan declares Independence
7. 1st September 1990, Uzbekistan declares Independence
8. 9th September 1990, Tajikistan declares Independence
9. 21st September 1990, Armenia declares Independence
10. 18th October 1990, Azerbaijan declares Independence
11. 12th December 1990, Russia declares Independence
12. 16th December 1990, Kazakhstan declares Independence

Therefore marking the end of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics.

December 26th, 1991, at the age of 70. The head of USSR makes a short speech expressing sorrow over the fall of the Union, frustrations of past mistakes, and hope for a better and freer people. General Secretary Mikhail Gorbachev then resigns from his post and declares the Soviet Union dead.

He possessed a quality lacking in most world leaders. He knew when to quit. Later opinion polls showed that the Soviet people felt it was time for him to move on. Not because they thought he had failed, but because he had served his purpose. Under his leadership, the yoke of totalitarian dictatorship had been lifted.