---
layout: 'layout:post'
---

Note that the following cases are not Socialists. They are capitalists, they are just very very heavily regulated. It is a common misconception that Nordic model is socialist. (as per economist Eirik Lokke). This can be seen very simply by looking at economic freedom which is very high, the exact opposite of socialism. 

This model is now being labelled as Social Democracy. Which btw has nothing to do with the conventional socialism. They solve the same problems at heart with very different methods. (Counter case is Cuba and Venezuela which are Democratic Socialists which are just not very democratic). 

The nordic model is largely very privatised in nature and there is a lot of freedom. There is just very high social spending via taxation. There is in fact a lot of places where the nordic are more free and less regulated than the Americans. The vikings just have a very good protection system for every single person.

## NORWAY
Income Per Capita - &lt;82K :: 4th Highest - (IMF 2018) \
*[Behind Luxembourg - 114K, Swiss - 83K, Macau - 82K]*

Life Expectancy - 81.8 :: 15th Highest (WHO 2016)

Education Till 12th - 42% :: 8th Highest (OECD)

Unemployment - 0.41% :: One of the Lowest (OECD)

Ease of Doing Business - 7 :: 7 (World Bank 2019)

Work Long Hours - 3% :: Probably lowest (OECD) \
*[for people who work &gt;50 hrs to support themselves with Global average at 11% and USA 33%]*

Total Exports (106B USD) Total Imports (85B) ~ Net Exports 21B

### The Change
Norway was not always this prosperous. In May 1963 as a part of NATO they claimed a very large part of the ocean as theirs (sovereign rights), and since they were part of NATO America didn't give them 'The Freedom Treatment' and did not interfere.

So from this ocean they started producing ridiculously large amount of oil causing their GDP in the 70s of 12B to go to 65B in the 80s. This was all done by a public corporation set up by the Govt called 'StatOil' (now Equinor) this caused all the profits not to go to the private companies pockets but instead directly to the Govt. (I know what you're thinking, stop. Private property is not theft, taking someone else's stuff is. Read ahead)

So rather than spend all the money left right and center on public infra, Norway put it in the largest sovereign wealth fund (as of 2018) in the world of 1.002T USD (Govt Pension Fund). Followed by the 2nd China at 941B USD (China Investment Coop) and 3rd UAE aat 828B (Abu Dhabi Investment Auth). 

All this money while IN THEORY belongs to the Norwegian people it is not directly accessible by them to buy gold plated lamborginis or even by the Govt. This is effectively a difficult to access Hedge Fund. What the Govt does is uses the PROFIT from these to then finance their Infra, Education etc. Their 2017 profit alone was 131B USD. This oil money reserve although is what technically got the nordic countries out of the '08 crisis very easily as opposed to the rest of the world.

What this fund does invest in is less interesting than what it does not. Weapons Manufacturers, Tobacco Companies, Companies which harm the environment, Companies which have breached labour and worker rights, and fossil companies. It BTW does not invest in its own companies which means all money is basically in foreign investments. Which basically means that with so much diversity it is stable and being abroad it is independent of the Norwegian economy. MINDS ARE BEING BLOWN.

### Caveats
Given the behemoth taxes the average Norwegian takes home only 27,300 Krone ~ 3200USD. (World Bank 2018) &gt; 2750 USD of USA. But while it is more it is not nearly as much as required. The Cost of living in Norway is astronomical in most cases bent anywhere from 1.5-2x more expensive. Although the citizens of Norway are largely happy with this because their argument is that because of the policies and systems in place losing Jobs won't make them homeless or they won't have crippling education debt or even medical debts.

## SWEDEN
Sweden has the Riksbank, the Oldest Central bank in the world paving the way forward for policy and regulation. So while Sweden does not have access to the Norway Oil Money, so in theory the are poorer. On paper what we actually see is that their quality of life, median salaries, life expectancy, rates of education ALL of these are virtually identical.

Sweden as of 2018 had a Gini Coeff of 0.27 as compared to China's roughly double that. And South Africa's 0.63. While it does mean Doctors won't take home as much money as in the USA. It does mean that Wintergatan will not go broke as he plays around with his marbles. So while at the end of the day a doctor will take up a little more Money than say a teacher, their lifestyles will not be fundamentally different. This causes people to choose professions only because they want to do it and they are passionate about it.

### Taxation
The highest tax rate in Sweden is 56.8% which is the highest marginal tax on income in the world as of 2019. Tax in Sweden is the great equaliser of all professions. In US the top tax rate of 37% is applicable to people earning &gt;518K/year which is &lt;1%. Whereas in Sweden it is as soon as you are 1.5x the Average income, which makes it a staggeringly large amount of people. So if a doctor makes 200K they take home only say 90K whereas if a worker actually makes 70K they get to take home say 50K. (hypothetical numbers to make a point).

So since this equalisation gives them 45% (2x of the US) of their annual GDP in taxes, they use this to fund their military, healthcare, welfare and education. This btw means that the Rich are effectively running the houses of the poor. (I am not commenting on if this is good or bad, its just a fact)

### Creativity
So how are swedes so creative????? Well in the USA most people use the fact that business taxes are two high as an argument to reduce business taxes, and say that the taxes are the reason to why their can't do their business despite the million dollar idea. This is not the full picture, the real reason is not the value, but the risk. In US if your business fails the chances that you are on the street are very high. In Sweden this is vvvvv low since even a Welfare recipient has a very good quality of life so people are less afraid to go wild. So Bjorn Engels can do architecture fearlessly (poor example since he's damn good) because the risk behind is very low at it. 

### Inequality?
While Sweden Gini for income is very low their WEALTH Gini is the second highest. They have the most billionaires per capita in the world. This is largely because people are taxed heavily businesses relatively much less. 

Commentary: Personally I think since there does not exist a lot of unemployment. There does not exist ANY exploitation, and there is ideal levels of transparency. This is no problems. Like those billionaires aren't really harming anyone. IKEA does not have their employees pee in a bottle, their employees work reasonable hours in a reasonable fasion and make reasonable money. Billionaires are a problem where they are becoming so off the backs of someone unethically (legal and illegal is a different question) which is a problem more prevalent in say US. In Sweden there seems to be no problem in so. This is after all a natural form of hierarchy, just where there is no tyranny or exploitation. 

## COMPILING
While Norway say has oil money currently, they are convinced that in the long run that will not do them much good and is not a form of sustainable economics. They will eventually increase taxes and reduce social spending to balance out. There is a reforecast every 4 years to prevent runaway situations. This is not a quirk/fault of 'The Capitalist System', they just relied on the oil too much (which didn't go well for Venezuela) and can be easily balanced out over a long time

While people say that tax increase and spending reduction can be offset by rapidly increasing productivity. It is not something that can be forecasted, can be attempted to achieve but not be forecasted by any means otherwise it is no different from the assumption that the Proletariat Govt will be hyperproductive with no explanation whatsoever.(As per Eiric Lokke)

Norway is also politically stable because their politics is very heavily balanced out with both center-right and center-left people. But on the flip side this model seems to be possible SO FAR only in countries with less people and also similar thoughts and very high social trust amongst themselves. So while this may not work in Texas, maybe in Wisconsin.

## Caveats
While it looks like it these countries are not socialists. They experimented with socialism very briefly in the late 70s to 2000s and realized that their country was destroyed by it, debt interest rates reached 500% and some people even paid more than 100% taxes.

It then decided to abandon socialism and become hypercapitalist. Just while taking care of its people, they even privatized the rail network. So technically since the govt doesn't own the means of production, these countries aren't even close to being socialist.

See More Here: https://youtu.be/0lxD-gikpMs