---
layout: 'layout:post'
---

**Corporation**:
1. a large business company
2. a group of people elected to govern a particular town or city


How is this any different from a Govt? The Govt is the largest corporation that makes goods and services and sells them at a profit which they then put back into the country, this country will then grow and buy more goods and services thus profiting the Govt.

The Govt as a matter of fact is also an anti-trust company. They hold the monopoly, they decide who competes and if they don't give the quality of services for the same value they take no one can do shit.

## Why should competition exist?
Higher prices than in competitive markets – Monopolies face inelastic demand and so can increase prices – giving consumers no alternative. Monopolies have fewer incentives to be efficient. With no competition, a monopoly can make profit without much effort, therefore it can encourage x-inefficiency (organisational slack)

Possible diseconomies of scale. A big firm may become inefficient because it is harder to coordinate and communicate in a big firm. This is very visibly seen in the inefficiency of the Indian Govt as compared to other democracies with less people.

Monopolies often have monopsony power in paying a lower price to suppliers. For example, farmers have complained about the monopsony power of large supermarkets – which means they receive a very low price for products. A monopoly may also have the power to pay lower wages to its workers. Consider china where the Govt jobs are among the lowest paying jobs. This can be further seen in how the average income in China is around 14K$/yr as opposed to USA 65K$, ~30K$ Hong Kong and 17K$ Mexico. China is almost completely state owned.

When there was the gold crisis and there was no immediate fall back, so since private companies also co-existed with the Govts, they were able to bring back the economy. JP Morgan was able to call together a set of bankers who were able to bring the economy back together, should they have not existed, it was very likely America would have collapsed economically and also pulled down a significant chunk of the world with it. Competition to exist is mandatory even to the Govt.

## What is profit?
Profit can be generated by 2 means, increase revenue, decrease cost.

Cost can be reduced by reducing expenses say going to a cheaper suppliers, or by doing economies of scale where the cost of making 10,000 Units per Unit is much lower than 10 Units per Unit, cost can even be reduced by making a new more efficient method of production alltogether like how say Tesla does.

This profit can then go back into the company and increase the scale of production and services where the company can benefit more people by making more products and having more jobs.

A profit can also be used to store in the company's vaults in case they need it on a bad day. Say there is a natural disaster, or a failed product or a demand deficit of any form then the company can use this reserve cash without which the most suitable course of action will be to reduce the salary of some of the workers and lay off some more because in cases of emergencies everything else is already optimised. So to prevent liquidation some people will need to be cut out. This is not uncommon by any means even in the Govt, around 2016-17 the Indian Govt had shut down more than 20 different PSUs.


## Risk of Failure
ANY company however successful has the risk of failure. The VOC was the richest company for 200 years before it disappeared out of existence. There do exist the Kongo Gumi's of the world, but the ratio of these to all the companies that ever existed is miniscule and to believe that your company will be one of these is foolish. Its like saying I will get hit by lightening 2 times in a row within less than 2 hours.

At some or the other point almost every corporation in its life will fuck up. Smaller mistakes are much better on the other hand, businesses are largely anti-fragile. And on top of that it is better for these mistakes to be made by smaller companies. It is better for smaller and smaller entities to make mistakes since that does not harm the larger system. So if even 20% (shameless eggsageration) companies of all make mistakes their competitors can take over. If the Govt makes mistakes, no competitors exist and no fallback exists. We are truly and utterly fucked. 

For example NK Govt made mistakes and they have no fallback. They are also partly to blame since they are actively even refusing external help. But the people of North Korea were fucked before any trade embargo was ever set in place. Most sanctions against them were imposed after 2010 and some after 2006 post the nuke tests. But we know from direct testimonies of defectors and infiltrators that NK was a human rights catastrophe far before any of this happened.

The big banks are not always bailed out by the Govt. Barings bank which had accounts of only the elite rich, but also the queen was not bailed out by anyone. It crumbled into liquidation after being purchased by ING. Or say Ira Haupt & Co which was eventually liquidated because of one margin call.


## Caveat
This also extends to the fact that there must also exist a coalition upper limit. If a monopoly company which is too large fails, even then it is too bad. So companies should not become very large in the first place. For multiple obvious reasons. That isn't to say that good cannot come out of very large companies, but the risk is too much. Most obviously AT&T vs United States, 2005.