---
layout: 'layout:post'
---

Hong Kong has evolved both physically and economically. They have currently 70% more skyscrapers than even NY. Their GDP per capita is magical compared to its once colonizer UK. Where in between 1995-2005 HK first equalled and then surpassed UK.

As per Fraiser Institute Rankings there is no place with more private ownership, lower public expenditure, simpler tax laws or less regulations. Hong Kong at least so far looks like it is as capitalist as it gets. They are number 1. As a matter of fact their leader is even called the Chief Executive, the first of whom was a billionaire leader of a shipping company

## Creation
Because of the way the british used to cycle aristocrats between their colonies, the HK culture eventually became dominated by british culture heavily. When HK was released as the last major hold out on of the Empire, they developed two separate systems, England being hands on and HK being hands off.

Sir John James Copper was a Govt person who believed that Govt intervention did more harm than good, he was opposed to keep too many complex records as this would give the Govt grounds to interfere. His successor called this 'Positive Non-interventionism' which then became the Heil Kapital for all of HK. The british believed that the colony was self sustaining enough that the Govt costs could be offset by the local revenue itself. The British as a matter of fact also made HK pay for a large chunk of their military base in HK.

With Financial independence came administrative independence, the HK British elite did not have to ask the Queen for help again and again and largely ran itself. They believed that excess social spending would attract unwanted immigrants. From 1948 to 1957 HK had a deficit for just 7 of the massive 50 years.

## Structure
Contrary to popular belief, HK was not a democracy and their officials were not elected by popular vote. This eventually created a red line barrier which gave unfair advantage to the elites and british people in society.

Lack of natural resources is an absolute bullshit argument based on a tiny definition of natural resources. Strategic location in the global trade network is by far the most important natural resource no competition. Singapore is a prime example of this right in the center of the trade network.

## Monopolies
Of the 24 births in HK port, 21 are controlled by just 2 companies. The Jockey Club has full monopoly on all gambling. There are also just 2 large bus companies, KMB and New world first bus. Their electricity is managed by just China light power and Honk Kong electric. All these monopolies are created by strong Govt control and careful handing out of chits. Their Beef and Gas markets are just 1 company alone.

Their retail game is completely divided into 2 companies. Jardines which owns all 7-11s, Starbucks, KFCs etc. ANd on the other side is CKH the other major holder. This is no surprise that groceries in HK are more expensive than UK, Singapore and Japan. Most of the largest amount of revenue the Govt gets is primarily due to the extremely high housing stamp duties since there are close to non existant other forms of taxes.

## Voting
HK Legislative Council i.e LegCo is made of 90 seats 20 of which are ultrademocratic where each seat is chosen by geographic votes.

The next 40 seats are nominated by election committee of which most people either INHERIT the position or are chosen in some other form by some entities due to their privilege. Today less than 10% of HK can actually vote to chose these seats.

The last 30 seats are elected by 'functional constituencies' i.e corporations. In the west there is lobbying. But here, lobbying does not exist, here the corporations do it directly.