---
layout: 'layout:post'
---

## Norway
It seems normally that country's which are per capita dependent on oil cannot be democratic the top 3 being Kuwait, Quatar and UAE. Yet the start exception to this rule is norway. Why?

While not being the only country to preserve democracy while being a large oil producer, it is the only country to preserve democracy while being a large oil producer PER CAPITA. "The Govt is made such a way that it can never corrupt itself" is a very stupid hindsight argument. How did Norway become this way?

### Un-dependence on oil
Alberta: Canada has a population of 4.45M and put all of its oil money in a wealth fund which is now 18B$, but that comes only to about 4K$ per person. In case of Norway of 5.3M people, their soverign wealth fund is worth 1.3T$, per person that is just under 245K$ per person. Let that just sink in for a second

It basically means that if all if all norwegian people were to leave their jobs right now, they can live comfortably for 7 years (assuming 3K$/month Cost of living). While its not smart to do so and also not easy, the implications are staggering.

Norway was never in a hurry to extract oil because when the surveyors first came they actually announced that the chances of finding oil on the Norwegian coast, is slim to none. Very soon the Dutch discovered the single largest oil field that stretched all the way into the north sea. People began to wonder what if there was more?

The norwegian landmass has a very large trench around it, for just a little more than their EEZ. So it would have made sense to actually just end it here. But the British were not in mood war a long drawn out conflict and intended to justs start drilling. Therefore the water was split right in the middle giving both countries ROUGHLY equal amounts of water and therefore potential oil on either side.

### Finding Oil
So Phillips actually dug 32 oil wells and discovered there was no oil in any of them. It was finally the 33rd drill that actually found gold out of the 85% of the total oil field which norway now owned. Now the real test started, Norway had seen first hand how American companies came, took all the loot and put almost nothing back into the economy. This is actually called The Dutch Disease, which causes the currency to appreciate causing it to actually do more harm than good by lowering its competitiveness.

Second, the norwegian Govt had vast amounts of experience in dealing with massive corporations as their were setting up their massive hydroelectric grid. No while in netheralands US was able to bully the Govt into giving them equal treatment under the law. In Norway the Govt was firmly in charge. They thought that this oil belonged to the public and the corporation was only helping out in extracting it. Therefore their theoretical bracketing of tax started not at 0% but at 100%. Therefore today oil there is subject to 22% ordinary tax + 56% special tax = 78% total tax. So while the Govt keeps the vast majority of the profit, the exploration costs solely belong to the company.

Norway now had a problem of developing jobs locally by actually using this oil, this meant that the oil actually first had to come on land: crossing first the deep norwegian trench, then the long windy waterways and finally extremely narrow roads. The way Agriculture sector lead to the development of the asian economy, the oil developed norway. So as a result of that today while norwegian labour is the 2nd most expensive, it is also among the best.

### Handling Oil
Knowing full well that the oil will eventually run out, norway chose not to get carried away and made a self imposed limit of 90M tonnes each year. Norway although was still tied to oil, in the late 80s when oil prices dropped the norwegian economy went into recession. So then they made the soverign wealth fund global and started diversifying the portfolio rapidly. [Read More Here](https://frontier.nukes.in/The-Nordic-Model/#the-change). SWF owns 1.5% of all public companies on the planet.

What prevents a populist party from spending it all? The Govt the created a limit that imposed that the Govt can only spend as much as it makes from the expected return of the fund, which today is around 3% annual return making it around 4B$ each year of basically free money.


## Venezuela
Unable to afford any food locally, people have resorted to eating garbage, even which is soon to run out. People have even stared breaking into zoos, whose animals are also starving, and killing those animals to then eat them.

### Finding Oil
Venezuela has the single largest proven oil reserve of any country ever. The largest of their oil belt in the Orinoco basin is estimated to have an estimated 1.2T tonnes of oil. Currently more than 2/3rd of Venezuela's oil comes from the Lake Maracaibo oil field. As of 2018 50% of their GDP was made up of oil exports and 95% of their total exports were just oil. This makes them an economy whose prices are wholey tied to the oil economy.

So when in the 60s and 70s the oil prices were soaring, Venezuela was considered a rich country with GDP/capita much higher than its neighbors and almost comparable to USA. This directly indicates that if the oil prices drop then Venezuela will not be doing well to say the least.

###  High Govt Spending
Hugo Chavez who rules Venezuela from 1999 to 2013 till his death was a very left leaning leader, who announced the creation of worker owned cooperatives, rapid nationalisation of even those industries which needed no intervention like tourism (also killing local enterprises) and redistribution of wealth. Chavez was extremely successful with these programs between the two years the data looked as follows

|  | 1999 | 2011 |
|---|---|---|
| **Unemployment** | 14.5% | 7.8% |
| **Poverty** | 50% | 31.9% |
| **Xtreme Poverty** | 19.9% | 8.6% |

Granted the numbers may or may not be considered great but they are very well in direction of progress by the superficial view. While from the top this looks very good, the details are not so pleasant. Venezuela made up 50% of their GDP just from social spending, which also they did much beyond the capacity of the country therefore collecting a debt of 106B$ by 2013. Being a populist Chavez ignored ALL warnings given to him that he was destroying the country and kept on with his "Bolivarian Missions".

Govt spending didn't go to long term deals like SWFs or infrastructure which will do long term benefit, but instead went away by handouts, the Govt simply gave money away. This was like winning a lottery and basically spending it all away at once, so in the short term life will be better than Americans but in the long term it will be worse than some Africans.

In the long term when Govt got into every possible business, killed the local businesses and nationalised it, they were all poorly run. So they all started running in debts rather than generate any profit. So the Govt  basically created one massive monopoly and failed at it. [Read More Here](https://frontier.nukes.in/Govt-A-Corporation/). And this burden was then passed on to the public making their situation worse furthur, over what is discussed

### Political Scenario
While polls show that 80% people want Maduro to be removed from office, he has gone forward to consolidate power and become an Authoritarian leader. When in 2016 post collapse the National Assembly (MUD) threatened his power by >2/3 majority. He reconstituted the Supreme Court, which basically stripped MUD of it powers. This got several protests and thus later Maduro created a new National Constituent Assembly with fancy propaganda words but which net-net was a replacement of MUD.

Maduro has informally set the price at 10:1 with the US Govt for VES:USD but the black market rate had fallen below 12K:1. So he used to import stuff from USA at 10:1 and sell in his country at 12K:1 at exorbitant profits. Maduro has essentially rigged the political system and economy for him to (at least short term) perpetually stay in power.

### Collapse
In 2014 the oil prices went from 100$ last year to 70$ this year and then further down to 33$ the next year per barrel. This sent Venezuela into an economic downward spiral. With depleting foreign reserves the Govt could no longer subsize local products and a rapid local bump in prices was seen. Maduro had only one way to deal with so much debt and such poor conditions, following the Zimbabwe route. He started printing more and more money, which caused the currency to rapidly devalue and hyper inflation. There was a price doubling time of just under 26 days. Which means in a year the increase will be a few thousand %.

|  | 2012 | 2017 |
|---|---|---|
| **Inflation** | 19% | 946% |
| **GDP/Capita** | 2091 | 1355 |
| **CPI** | &lt;200 | 2146.1 |
| **MurderRate/100K** | 74 | 91 |

Since 2015 more than 2M people have already left Venezuela since they were no longer able to live there.

<details>
 <summary>Digression | Current Plans of "recovery"</summary>
 <p>
 Moduro in his current plans of recovery has first symbolic changes of slashing 5 0s from the currency and renaming it from Bolivar to Soverign Bolivar, so a 1,000,000 Bolivar object is now 1 Sov Bolivar. He would then proceed to devalue the currency by 95%. Then finally he would tie the price to the new Oil backed cryptocurrency Petro. He planned to hike minimum wage by 3000%.
 </p>
</details>

## Concluding Remarks
In case of Venezuela the currency up-valued and basically destroyed local businesses which failed to compete on a global scale against cheaper foreign goods, this was further made worse because the Govt failed to diversify anything. This was in stark contrast to Norway who used oil to generate local jobs and skilled labour and invested in infrastructure, they they further decided to rapidly diversify their investments.

Oil is not a Saviour, it is merely a temporary support, that too of the past. Venezuela lived like a paycheck to paycheck party kid, Norway put it into smart investments. Venezuela is now on the street and Norway is now the rich kid from Westend London.