---
layout: 'layout:post'
---

In 2012 Mexico passed a law regulating the art market. It has some extremely basic characteristics
- Restricting the use of Cash
- Making the information about buyers be available to govt

Within less than a year, the biggest buyers afraid of being identified had pulled out and net market sales had dipped 30%.

### Crime
Fine art transactions are the ideal ground for money laundering. They are most often anonymous, can be made in such a way that the commodity can be hidden from the public eye and deals in extremely large number. So this not only attracts cartels but also large businessmen who are trying to do illegal things.

Paintings are very interesting tax exempt and largely stay in places called Freeports like one in Geneva which has paintings worth more than $100B. These paintings can be auctioned, bought, sold and resold without ever leaving the building. US auction houses in fact are not subject to any anti money laundering laws. So while Christie's and Sotheby's (both of which are the largest art dealers. In 2020 8/10 most expensive pieces were sold by them alone) claim that they take strict measures to avoid money laundering and counterfeiting, there is no one who can check or confirm.

When the panama papers leaked in 2016, they pointed out that a very large number of paintings by very famous artists like Van Gogh, Rothko, Pollock etc had started disappearing i.e from the public eye. This attracts not only people but also large cartels and businesses since they can very easily avoid international sanctions by simply dealing in the art market.

Last year (2019) for example US released a report on the Rotenberg family who had very large amount of sanctions against them since the Russian annexation of Crimea. The family started getting around these by dealing in a very large amount of expensive art works. They created shell companies to purchase paintings with prices >$18M. With an almost opaque market with little to no regulations the US was not able to do a lot about these.

## Structure
Each year the art market sells around $61B worth of art (less than 4 days of Walmart total sales). Geographically more than 82% of the global art largely is in distribution in US, UK and China i.e NY, London and Hong Kong. In fact 43% of all art dealers had less than '20' unique buyers in all of 2020. With a few more statistics it is very obvious to see that the Art market screams corruption and exploitation.

### Commissions
Almost 3 decades ago Roy Lichtenstein put up the last solo show of his career for which he created a few nude portraits. Castelli had partnered with Roy for his first one man show 3 more decades ago when he first started painting art. Castelli thought that Roy could do well in the art market and therefore decided to even partner with an assistant professor in the first place. This proved to be correct as every single of Roy's pieces was sold out before the show even started. Overnight Castelli had MADE Roy a success as a result of which Roy decided to stick with him for the rest of his career.

One of these paintings owned by the Castelli gallery was exchanged by serveral hands several times all unknown over the years. The last of these decided to sell it again and contacted Christie's.
Process:
- Auction house asks for an in House appraisal which sets a LOWER and an UPPER price for which the work can sell
- Assuming going ahead the seller then quotes a RESERVE prices at or below LOWER, less than which the painting will NOT sell
- For high end sales in order to secure the deal for themselves Auction house garuntees a sale and says that for any bid less than LOWER the house will itself buy it at LOWER
- On the other side of which the house says that in order to assure quality of service they will take 2% as fees if SP > UPPER

While official numbers are not published in most cases since houses are eager to bring in sellers, they usually keep a cut for all or most sales in percent. The bulk of Christie's or Sotheby's money however is made from buyer at various numbers where buyers must pay an addition fees on top of the work price as fees. So say at Christie's the table is roughly as follows

| Price | Fees |
|---|---|
| <600K | 25% |
| <6M | 20% |
| >6M | 14.5% |

This makes the house highly highly motivated to actually sell an art.

### Events
The bulk of the work is done by the house for the whole year so that they can prepare for one single event where they will actually make the bulk of their money. They talk to sellers, do a load of PR, they contact buyers, attract art in general etc etc. This mega event is usually held under the banner of one of their London, NY, Paris or HK houses with the exception of 2020 where it was live streamed with all 3 houses tying up. The event usually consists of the cream of the cream of their most expensive art works in order to ensure it is a CANNOT miss event for the art world.

> In 2020 the cheapest art had a LOWER of 60K (sold for 3M)

Roy was sold at this 2020 event with a starting bid of 20M and eventually sold for 40.5M over 10m and 14s. This was the 3rd highest sale of any art in all of 2020. The whole 4 hour even sold $421M of art, a whole 1% of the global art market, this also made Christie's close to $60M in earnings.

## The Problem
Art in itself is meaningless. It has no value at all whatsoever.

Lets say we walk by a store and see a small painting in tatters of a man with long hair holding a crystal ball as if to preach something. Most people would assign it a value not more than 30-100$. This is precisely what happened when in the 1950s the Kuntz people brought such a painting from an auction for 45$ which was claimed to be sold as a cheap copy of one of Da Vinci's lost works. The painting changed a few hands after which Parrish and Simon expected it to have much more value than it already has been assigned of around 2000$

The art examiner hired to check this took an IR image of the painting and compared it against similar copies. In every painting EXCEPT this one the under images of pencil linings were identical. Just here, in the pencil, one thumb was in a slightly different position as if when painting the artist changed his mind from on the finger's position. This would make no sense while being copied and also not be visible, therefore no other copy has it. With later examination of a few more tests just to confirm suspicions it was found that this painting was

**Salvator Mundi, By Leonardo Da Vinci, Himself**

In 2011 the London Gallery finally validated the claim when they put it on display and the title read, *Leonardo Da Vinci*. Its price SKYROCKETED. Where it exchanged hands again 2-3 times in the 100s of millions. Only the 24th known painting by LDV and only the 2nd NOT in any museum, it was sure to fetch a ridiculous price. After a world tour a few times around it was bought by MBS, Crown Prince of Saudi Arabia for 450,312,500$. A painting which was worth 45$, is now suddenly 10 MILLION TIMES more valuable in a span of less than 70 years. i.e

ART HAS NO INTRINSIC VALUE.

It is all about who made it, when made it and most importantly who wants it. In most cases when looking at an object people can determine its rough value to at least within 1 order of magnitude. In case of art even that is not possible. The value of art is decided by a very small amount of Gatekeepers, Auctioneers and Galleries. If you were to launch Roy or Mundi today, would you get the same performance?

### Case Study - Andy Warhol
Between 2005 and 2013 1/4th of EVERY SINGLE Warhol work was bought by one man, Jose Mugrabi. He currently has more than 800 Warhols. At least on paper these are all >1B in value. Mugrabi is very invested in making sure that the market for Warhols says hot in his own benefit.

In every other market monopolies and power concentration is heavily moderated so that no one player can control the entire of dominant chunk of any given market. In case of the art world this regulation does not exist. As a result of this, everytime there is a Warhol auction, Mugrabi is sure to be there and jack up the prices of all the Warhol works in there. He keeps the market filled with artificial demand often by strategically overpaying for Warhol works.

This happens for one simple reason. Auctions are the only one way in which the value of any one particle work of art can be declared publicly, when two private individuals make a deal, its value has mutually agreed has no meaning in the market. But when such is done on an auction, then we can attribute its price on sale as its value at that time in the free market. This is exactly what Mugrabi does, in any way whatsoever when a Warhol sells for high value in public, he can then sell his own private collection at similar prices in private. This is an extensible common mechanism. Collectors pick a niche and dominate the market since it is all 100% legal.

Since most Niches are in general very small, Mugrabi will know most of the people who in general buy Warhols, all of whom know mutually that anything that hurts the market hurts them. So they mutually agree to keep the price high to benefit themselves. This whole Cartel type game causes there to be rampant corruption in the industry as a whole. The art market is not made up of arts and deals and infiltrated by scams. But rather it is a market made up of scams infiltrated by arts and deals.

## Taxation
In the US, there is a tax law which says that if any work of art is Donated to a public institution then an equivalent value of income is exempt from taxes. Which basically means that if I donate a 100M piece of art then I am exempt from around 40M worth of taxes effectively taking them as profit.

Sample Case: Buy a work of art for 4M, hold it till its value increases to 11M. Donate it. That makes a tax exemption now for 4.4M. Which effectively means we have broken even at 4M and turned a profit of 0.4M.

The IRS requires all expensive artworks to be independently appraised because what the fuck is art value even. But due to the nature of the market it is extremely easy to force a valuation in our favour and use that to get a bigger tax write off. On top of that the IRS is so overloaded with cases that they actually put in the time to check cases properly very rarely.

Only about 42% of all works so far have been valued correctly (whatever that means i.e Close to auction price). Everything else has either been over or under valued, half and half. Donation has an additional advantage that when a work of art is in a museum the other works by that artist also appreciate in price, i.e the ones in private collections. So these benefit the owner who deals in predefined niches. The perfect example of this was as seen earlier with LDV most of whose works are in museums therefore increasing his private works to astronomical prices.