---
layout: 'layout:post'
---

Germany is the largest economy in all of Europe by a margin and the 4th largest in the world (Just behind Japan).

## Formation
As opposed to other Economies in EU like UK, Netherlands, France, Spain etc which were all empires for 100s of years, Germany is fairly young and was formed post the Germanic Wars into the German Empire around 150 years ago from the Franco-Prussian Republic. While it is common to call economic successes a miracle: The Chinese Miracle, The Japanese Miracle, The South Korean Miracle etc etc for any nation which manages to get rapidly industrialised, but in Germany's case it is surprising to not call it an actual miracle.

Coming out of WW1 with a massive economic burden was placed on Germany in the form of *War Reparations*. The Victorious Allies in the war were very very angry at the massive cost that they had ensued fighting in this war and they decided that it was up to Germany to pay them. This put an extremely heavy burden on the already crippled nation and the nation was beat down over and over again.

Oh you just lost a war and all of your productive infrastructure? Here is a huge reparations debt that you have to repay.
Ih you're trying to get your currency off the ground to support a domestic consumer market? Boom hyperinflation
Oh for some reason you can't pay back this humongous war debt that we are placed on you? No problem we will just take back the rule. The most industrially proficient region in your nation
Oh you are finally finding your feet again and starting to make progress towards paying your debts and looking after your own people? Here you go have the worst financial crisis in history. T

Things were not going well for Germany and as we know such conditions are ripe for the rise of nationalist populist leaders like Adolf Hitler. It goes without saying that the rule of Hitler was the most horrendous thing ever seen but, well, there was strong economic progress.

## Growth
The nation was making progress towards getting back on track. Infrastructure spending was hugely increased leading to almost full employment. This was something that was actually widely praised at the time, but it wasn't without its issues even if we ignore the catastrophic social issues of the country at this time.

First of all full employment is normally a really positive thing for an economy but there were a few considerations here the Nazi Party basically kicked out all women and any individuals that they considered unworthy out of working for the government, and a lot of large companies followed the lead of the government on this issue either because of the ideology of their own leadership or simply to curry favor with the government. What this meant is sure employment is now nearly at 100% but this is only because you count white men as employable.

Another big consideration was, that this economic growth came about through a huge fiscal stimulus fueled by debt. The nation was literally buying its way out of its economic woes which is not necessarily a bad plan general anti-cyclical fiscal policy calls for strong government spending and low taxation during times of economic stagnation. The problem here was how the nation planned to repay this skyrocketing debt.

Normally governments repay their debt by taxing their citizens more and spending less during good times but no no Germany decided that annexing their neighbours and plundering their wealth was a better strategy for repaying their debts. This of course was not a particularly popular economic policy amongst other nations and once again Germany found itself in another war which it lost from this. Germany once again found its fate decided on by the victorious Allies. The nation had been divided into two split between the Allies in the West and the Soviet Union in the East and as with all other great nations these were born out of the aftermath of a war West Germany officially the Federal Republic of Germany was the half of Germany that was allied with the Western bloc powers.

## Post WW2
Unlike in the aftermath of World War one victorious Allies decided that beating a country (AGAIN) while it was down was probably not the greatest idea. So they decided instead to enact the Marshall Plan which actually meant that the victorious nations paid to rebuild the infrastructure of Germany from the rubble that was left of it from the war. This did three things
- Firstly it meant that the citizens of West Germany were given a good quality of life meaning that they were less likely to support nationalist leaders all over again.
- It also meant that the Allied nations would have a new strong trading partner and a source of cheap export goods.
- Most importantly it meant that West Germany would not be enticed to embrace the communist ideologies of the Soviet Union.

### East & West
West Germany was given a lot of assistance by nations like France, England and above all USA, but it's still prospered under its own merit. It introduced a new currency the Deutsche Mark which stemmed the issues it was having with hyperinflation and got down to building cars and consumer goods and exporting them rapidly. This was a very similar story to what we saw in Axis Japan. The story was a little bit different though for the 2nd Germany that was formed in the East, East Germany (German Democratic Republic) was the half of Germany that became part of the Eastern Bloc under the control of the Soviet Union. It was the best of times and it was the worst of times as West Germany underwent its economic miracle giving rise to household brand names and some of the best living conditions the world had seen at that point East Germany lagged behind. Typical Soviet-esque economic plans were enacted industries were nationalized, rations were established. East Germany is just geographically more disadvantaged than West Germany (this however played little role in its 'downfall') it was smaller it didn't have the same access to oceans for trade it was colder and as couldn't produce as much food. Despite this East Germany was put on a pedestal amongst the Eastern Bloc nations, as a kind of the showpiece to demonstrate how great life was under the communist rule. Spoiler Alert. It still wasn't great, nowhere was this divided more evident than in Berlin.

Berlin was a special case of weird borders, it technically fell within the borders of the socialist East Germany but West Berlin was still controlled by the will of the West. This was a point of much contention and the Soviet Union tried to flex it economic might in East Berlin because it was one of the few places in all of the Soviet Union that the Western Empire could see beyond the Iron Curtain and perhaps more importantly one of the only places where Soviet citizens were able to see into the West. This really got on the nerves of the Soviet leadership who tried pumping lots and lots of money into East Berlin to make it the crown jewel of living standards in the Soviet Union, the envy of every other city in the world. Spoiler Alert 2. Living conditions weren't great. It then tried cutting off West Berlin from supplies from abroad which it could do because it's all around the little capitalist island. The West got around this by basically flying in all of the supplies that they needed. This eventually ended in a stalemate with one big wall coming up. About a year before the total collapse of the Soviet Union East and West Germany were reunified into a single nation under the banner of the Federal Republic of reunified Germany or today simply Germany re-established. Its national capital in Berlin brought down the wall.

### Reunified Germany
West Germany at this point was a thriving economic powerhouse exporting world-class products all over the globe, East Germany could barely feed itself believe it or not. Smashing these two together didn't go flawlessly strangely enough though a lot of these problems didn't come from East Germany's inability to embrace the free market economy but rather these social policies already built into the system in the West.

## Rhine Capitalism
A major part of the modern German economy is a socio-economic model called Rhine capitalism, The idea of this model is that it provides the best aspects of capitalism things like entrepreneurship, incentives to work harder, innovation and all of that good stuff and also combines this with the best parts of a social democracy things like strong social safety nets, a universal access to education and health care, strong workers rights and very stringent controls on business.

Germany loves its businesses today. It is home to some of the largest companies in the world like Mercedes, Porsche, Volkswagen, Allianz, Deutsche Bank, Schwarz Group etc. They are all in the light all very profitable companies that operate all over the world but Germany also makes sure it keeps them in control if a company gets too big to the point of forming a monopoly Germany will take aggressive action to keep it in line, if a company is causing environmental damage or abusing workers it will be taken care of this has done a lot of things but above all else it has made Germany a very competitive marketplace.

Rhine Cap is very similar to the norwegian model as seen earlier, with the only difference being that it is fuelled by industriousness instead of oil. Due to the merging of the East it did initial cause a large stagnation since East had its own power grid, culture, industries etc but post this stagnation Germany is probably now responsible for keeping the whole European economy as a whole stable.

There are lucky countries in Africa that do everything wrong. There are lucky countries like Norway that do everything right. But Germany is a rare case of an ultra unlucky country which was able to be successfull by raw genius and industriousness alone. German efficiency is undeniably a superpower the people there possess. Its not just their cars. Its them.