---
layout: 'layout:post'
---

France is the 5th largest country by land area and the single largest country by exclusive economic zone. Its not just mainland however, France has a very large number of overseas territories.

## Territories
For example one in say St Martins island. So France shares a border with Netherlands, but in the Caribbean not in Europe. The island is split as Sint Maarten (Dutch) and Saint Martin (French). In fact the furthest possible to get from any territory of france anywhere is actually in most of densly occuped china, North Korea, Hokkaido and FAR East Russia. These are all more than 7000 km away from any french territory. All the external combined overseas territories add about 120K sq km of territory for france. The 3M people living in these regions are all members of France and therefore EU.

This also makes france the country with the most timezones. Russia has 11 but france has 13. Some colonies in fact are very significant like the two around Madagascar. Reunion Island with a population of 850K i.e more than Malta (514K) and barely less than Cyprus (880K). Another neighbour of Madagascar, Mayotte has a population of 270K making the local region of france around 1M people. These two are also btw the farthest regions from mainland EU.

French Guiana another territory which uses Euros was mainly kept since it is very close to the equator and makes launching rockets for ESA easier as the equator is higher up and spins faster. French Guiana also has a national park which is the largest national park despite being actually located in South America. lol. Most of French Guiana is however empty and only 300K people live there.

## EEZ
Under terms of United Nations Maritime Comventions France can posses water around all their territories thus when added together the French have 11.7M sq km of ocean. This whole area is larger than the full ground area of all of Europe (not incl Russia). This 11.7 is also 8% of all of the world's possible EEZ Area. All this despite having only 0.45% of land and 0.84% of global population. If the world's countries are ranked by area with land and water both then france suddenly becomes 5th beating China, India, Brazil & Indonesia.

The EU In general has a presence in every possible area ocean and sea. It's just less evident as compared to say 'FreedomLand People' because EU is much less invasive. The French Specifically have the 3rd largest military presence in the world. They have bases in so many different places that for any threat at any moment they can deploy at a moments notice almost as promptly as the US as they have done very frequently in Asia and Africa.

# Economics
Post the French Revolution many things were reformed most of which worked only half well. The metric was not perfect, poor people were still poor and a few more things. The one significant thing however that came out of it was the Declaration of Rights (the French version of the Amerian Bill of Rights).

France till today is a country shaped by the desires of the people. Fighting for better standards of living is now a part of their standard ecosystem in france.

```js
Current_Accounts = Exports - Imports
Finance_Accounts = InvestmentsOut - InvestmentsIn
```

The Current_Account + Finance_Accounts has to always = 0. It is always bad when a company imports more than it exports since this way it will take on more and more foreign debt & more and more of the country will be owned by foreign interests. One of Macron's objectives is to bring France back to a trade surplus (not met as of 2019).

This trade deficit is not nearly as scary as people make them sound however, most developed countries have trade deficits. USA ex has a trade deficit that is 10x that of France's 67B$ (as of 2019). The french goods are of extremely high value since they are not just the work of expensive artisanship but also that the culture of france is of great desire from around the world. So a 100$ piece of leather can be sold for at the very least x times 1000$ in a handbag. Putting a made in france logo is as good as a made by apple logo. The quality is very high indeed, but the logo itself demands a price.

## Tourism
All said and done France's largest asset is its tourism industry. Contrary to popular belief, Tourism is in fact an export type industry since someone from abroad is pumping money into your system. France has the world's largest tourism economy. People come from all over the world to look at Mona Lisa, Eiffel Tower, Disneyland and the whole country in general with many unmentioned specifics here if not more equally valueable.

Tourism unlike anything else is an endlessly renewable service. When a good or service is given it is used up a little bit. But looking the the Tower or Mona Lisa doesn't do anything to it. The experience of watching it for the next person is only even more since the value of it increases as every person watches it. This provides france with an endless supply of instagram photos.

A very distinct advantage of tourism is that it pumps money not into a system or a corporation but directly into the hands of the local community. When buying a bagel on the street side or a souvenier of the tower its the streetside vendor who makes money not Renault or Dassult.

By virtue of being heavily depended on tourism, France is a great indicator of global economy. They have a large economy plus it is dependent on tourism. So both the artifical (stocks) as well as real markets (actual prosperity of people via streetside businesses) are very well reflected by its performance.

## Labour Problem
Unemployment in france is very high (9% i.e 2x USA around 2019). This is primarily due to high worker unionship and high wages along with a not up to mark education standard since social welfare is decent-ish. French people also work only 35h as opposed to 40h. So people can't be hired since they don't know shit (low education), but need to be paid a lot (high wages) for working less (35h) and also can't be fired (unions). This makes life very difficult. So it creates a very large demand for people and a very large supply of people at the same time without scope for meeting the demand. This is not just a logistic gap of matching people to right jobs, but a very real crisis of incompatibility. (This problem is probably present in other counteies also just not to this extreme an extent)

We have seen countries with high social welfare before like Sweden and Norway and all but they were really prosperous. So what is happening with France? Everyone from IMF to political commentators has an opinion on the matter which are often contradictory but no solid evidence backed testable theory has yet arrived. TLDR: No one really knows.

The strongest argument put forth so far is that Sweden has a very strong Entrepreneurship sentiment whereas in France beurocracy will beat you over the head and make life difficult for starting a business making people opt to not start a business and rather stay unemployed/employed. The supplement to this theory is that French universities are very good for teaching philosophy and arts but not really any practical real skills which the companies actually need so any existing businesses rarely get good people.

Subpoint: Working for experience in France is almost a Heresey. People working for no pay is not a consept here like in Sweden where people frequenly don't mind changing places to garner more experience as opposed to france where if you've worked for more than a certain time you are basically un-fireable.