---
layout: 'layout:post'
---

### Hall Carbine Affair
JPM was approached by a lawyer (Simon Stevens) to lend hum 20K at 7% pa interest to purchase 5K Hall Carbine guns from the army at $3.50 per gun which could be repaired at $0.75 and flipped back to the army at $22 with a massive profit. The guns were in demand due to the Union vs Confederate war at the time.

### Drexel Morgan
JPM with help from his father met Alex Drexel and started Drexel Morgan & Co. JPM made strict rules like women being allowed in the office for only one day of the year (New Year Celebrations). His partners' female secretary also had to be stationed across the street.

### Rail
Railways back then had a very high startup cost and were largely unregulated. Carnegie was forging more steel than all of Great Britain. Rockefeller was refining 90% of America's oil, but the railways were in absolute chaos sometimes with several companies laying railways along the same road driving down margins due to competition. Morgan then started investing in rail companies, joining their board of directors and reshuffling the company the way he saw fit. This process came to be known as Morganization, now called Activist Investing.
When at one time American railway was threatened and British investors were pulling money out at an alarming rate (Given that 2/3rd of American Stocks were rail then). JPM called the 2 chairmen on a boat (The Corsair) and refused to dock till they agreed. They eventually stopped entering each other's territory. This was known as the Corsair Pact.

### Gold Panic 1893
USD was tied to the Gold Standard which allowed exchange back and Forth. The Govt wanted to create trust in itself it used to maintain $100M in reserves which started rapidly depleting when European investors exchanged their USD for Gold. During the crisis then locally called Great Depression (not redefined until 1929), about 1/3rd of US rail lines declared bankruptcy. JPM then started rapidly consolidating the companies and issuing shares to raise capital.
The US economy was then rapidly falling as the gold reserves started depleting at $2M/h and finally reached $9M when Morgan said he personally knew of a $12M deal which would then empty the coffers. When asked on what to do he found a loophole in an old Civil War law which allowed him to bypass Congress and set up a deal where the Govt could buy gold from his private reserves from a syndicate of American & European investors. Within 22mins in America an 2 hours in London, the US Gold Bonds were completely sold. JP Morgan had bailed out the United States Govt from a tragedy.

This is supposed to be factual but I am tempted to say "HAIL FREE MARKET"

### USSC
A few years later Carnegie sold Carnegie Steel to JPM for $480M which he instantly paid making it the most expensive transaction ever, Carnegie said he should have asked for $100M more to which Morgan said he would have paid. LOL. This sale consolidated the Federal, Carnegie and National Steel companies creating the United States Steel Corporation. USS was the world's first Billion Dollar Company at 1.7B i.e 7% of America's GDP then. JPM then also created Northern Securities which purchased 2 of America's largest rail road companies then as a result of which he owned 60% of American Railroad which was already 1/3rd of their Stock Market

### Roosevelt
Using Sherman Anti Trust Act 1890, Roosevelt broke up Northern Securities into smaller companies in 1904. In 1907 the United Copper Company did badly and pulled down the entire mining industry as a result of which causing another financial crumble nationally. Despite the differences they had Roosevelt knew only one person could save American Economy Again.
John. Pierpont. Morgan.
Rockerfeller offered 50% of his personal fortune if JPM could save the country from a depression. JPM met with all the heads of the largest banks and made a resolution by the end of the week to organise the capital needed to bail out the banks. AGAIN. JP Morgan was a god by this time. He walked down Wall Street with people cheering.

### End of Life
The Pujo Committee investigated JPM for wrong doing and found he effectively controlled $22B through his 112 Corporations and 341 directorships. 2/3rd of American Economy. The Pujo Committee paved the way for creating the Federal Reserve and laid foundations for the permanent fixture of Income Taxes. JPM also owned through his Shipping trust the International Mercantile Marine Company a vessel. The Titanic.
When JPM died out of respect the Wall Street flags flew Half Mast and the NYSE remained closed till noon. When he died his net worth was $80M half of which was in his art collections. Contrary to popular belief, JPM wasn't really all that rich they showed him. His personal library was opened to the public in 1924.